Tower Vibration-Based Icing Detection on 
Operational Wind Turbines 
 
MUSTAPHA CHAAR, WOUT WEIJ TJENS, YACINE BEL-HADJ 
and CHRISTOF DEVRIENDT 
 
ABSTRACT 
Ice accretion on wind turbines poses a si gnificant safety risk, especially in 
densely populated areas. Ice built up on the blades can be  thrown towards people and 
infrastructure and cause potenti al damage and harm. This risk is known and, as such, 
several solutions exist in today’s market to detect ice accretion on the blades and 
timely shut down the system. The industry c onsensus is that ici ng detection systems 
installed directly on the blades offer mo re reliable detection. However, (post-) 
installation of hardware on the blades poses some practical limitations, impacting 
the overall cost and maintain ability. To comple ment existing technology this study 
proposes monitoring the whirling modes,  which are the natural frequencies 
associated with the wind turbine rotor, through a sensitive ac celerometer mounted 
on the tower. The working principles rely on the concept that the increase of mass 
due to ice will lower the natural frequencie s of the rotor. Obse rving this phenomenon 
from the tower implies a similar working pr inciple as some blade mounted systems, 
while having a sensor installed on the towe r simplifies installation and maintenance. 
Utilizing SHM data from tower, an ice indicator was made during standstill and operation which provided a proof of concept for this method. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Wind turbines are a popular source of re newable energy, with large-scale projects 
being implemented worldwide to combat climate change. Wind energy is highly 
dependent on environmental conditions an d with it come many challenges. A 
particular phenomenon encountered in cold regions is the icing on the blades of wind 
turbines [1]. Icing accreti on on the blades affects the aerodynamic shape of blades 
resulting in power lo sses [1]. Moreover, the uneven sh ape of the ice-covered blades 
can generate noise and vibrations which c ontribute to fatigue and increased lifetime 
consumption. Icing can also impose safety risks towards nearby inhabitants as ice 
can be thrown towards people and infrastru cture, particularly in densely populated 
areas. In Europe the severity and occurrenc e vary strongly betw een regions which is 
presented in [1]. Therefore, multiple market  solutions that aim to mitigate its impact 
already exist. 
______________ 
Mustapha Chaar 
Email: mustapha.chaar@vub. be/mustapha.chaar@24sea.eu, Industrial PH. D. student 
Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), OWI-LAB, Department of Applied Mechanics, Pleinlaan 2, 
1050 Brussels 24SEA, Drukpers straat 4, 1000 Brussels 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 Given the different severity and occurrence  as well as the built environment, the 
way icing is handled differs between countries. F or instance , for Scandinavian 
countries  such as Norway  icing is a long-term issue with icing period lasting more 
than 30 days per year  in often remote areas . As such , the main concern is the power 
losses associated with rotor icing  rather than safety . As icing equates to  loss of 
efficiency and therefor e loss of revenue, blade heating solutions are a viable measure 
against icing even despite their cost of operation.  On the  other  hand, for countries 
such as Belgium rotor icing is a short -term problem, and therefore the powe r losses 
are minimal. For densely populated countries with short icing period s, safety from 
the ice thrown is the main prio rity. In general very conservative ice -prevention 
strategies are adopted , shutting down the machine when weather conditions have an 
elevated risk of ice formation. The machine is only restarted  when a visual (on -site) 
inspection confirms the absence of ice. As icing is rare , this scenario only plays out 
a few times every winter , making  high-end icing detection or blade heating too 
expen sive compared to the gained revenue. While conservative , the strategy is not 
flawless, fluke weather conditions and ill -judgement during the visual inspection 
may still result in the turbine operating with ice.  
In this contribution , the aim is develop an ice detection solution that is more cost -
effective than existing solutions on today’s market. It aims to re -use the Structural 
Health Monitoring hardware used for other purposes, such as fatigue assessment. 
Simultaneously it does not rely on ha rdware inside the blades, or the outside of the 
wind turbine. Facilitating installation and maintenance of the device.  
STATE -OF-THE -ART  ON I CING DETECTION  
The current state -of-the-art methods can be classified into two groups, nacelle -
based systems, and ro tor-based systems which are presented in [2]. The icing 
detection systems on nacelle -based systems working principle relies on assessing the 
meteorological conditions (such as measuring the temperature and humidity) and 
inferri ng the likelihood of rotor icing. While on the hand, the rotor -based systems 
deploy sensors directly on the rotor and detect icing via impedance or resonance 
frequency deviation. The resonance frequency method is the most common rotor -
based method found in  [2]. Their working principle relies on the concept that the ice 
mass formed on the blades will decrease the natural frequency . Thus, i ce is detected  
by identifying a  drop in the resonance frequencies . Similarly, as ice melt s or fall s off 
the blades, the mass decrease s and the frequencies return to their nomi nal values  
allowing the turbine to be restarted  in case of safety shutdown . In particular, 
monitoring the rotor modes are of interest  as in theory they are the most  sensitive to 
icing . The rotor  frequency -based systems  that are commercially  available are 
Fos4 ice, IDD.Blade  (also known as Wölfel SHM.Blade ), Bosch Rexroth blade 
control  [2]. Since the frequencies measured are dependent on Environmental and 
Operating Conditions  (EOC) , these  systems need to compensate for  these 
variabilities . The idea is to model the EOC effects and compute the residual  between 
the predicted resonance frequencies (given the current environmental conditions) 
and those observed , this residual  would be evaluated to assess icing . All of the 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 aforementioned systems  install sensors as close to the tip of the rotor as possible. 
This could impose  operat ion constraints as replacing the sensors is challenging, 
moreover concerns such as lightning and power transfer into the blade need to be 
resolved .  
As an alternative, this paper purposed building on the work of [3], by 
investigating both feasibility  of monitoring the whirling modes from the tower  and 
the ability of detecting icing using those rotor modes  during operation  and standstill . 
This offers a cost-effective  method to detect  icing by lowering the complexity and 
maintainability of sensors. However, when rotor modes are observed from the tower 
they show rotor speed dependency, hence often refer to as “whirling modes”. With 
the forward whirling mode increases with rotorspeed, while the  backward whirling 
modes decreases. According to [4] simulation results, with only 2% additional mass 
the whirling modes frequencies can drop up to 5%. .  Moreover, th e method is 
coupled with machine learning techniques to compensate for natural variabilities in 
the measurements. Like the aforementioned freq uency monitoring system s, the EOC 
variability is modelled and then removed allowing  the assessment to focus on 
structural changes.  
METHODOLOGY  
This study was implemented on data obtained from an operational wind turbine 
in the Amel  wind farm which is located in Liège, Belgium. The data  provided by 
OWI -lab contained the Mo del Parameter Estimation  (MPE)  which is collected 
through a  SHM sensor  installed in the tower of the wind turbine  along with the 
turbine SCADA parameter s (such as pitch, rotor speed , etc.). The MPE is obtained 
through Operational Model analysis where the structure is assumed to be excited by 
white noise  (natural vibrations)  and the output is recorded. Using this process 
parameters such as frequency and damping are estimated which then can be used for 
structural health monitoring applications , more about the process can be found in [5]. 
The time p eriod recorded is from the 7th of December 2020 until the 30th of March 
2021.  Moreover, meteorological data was obtained through the Royal 
Meteorological institute of Belgium. In  Figure 1 the frequencies measured are 
plotted  against  the rotor speed to produce a so-called Campbell diagram. The 
Campbell diagram is a relevant plot  as it shows the different  types  of modes captured  
by the SHM system.  The different of modes captured can be summarized  as: 
• Rotor harmonics : multiple s of the rotor speed frequencies  1p, 3p, 6p, 9p 
(black dashed lines) . 
• Structural modes : mostly dependent on mass and stiffness of the structure  
such as the first side -side natural frequency ( SS1), independent of the rotor 
speed  (black bold line)  
• Whirling modes : rotor modes which are dependent on mass,  stiffness  of the 
rotor and the  rotor speed  (orange lines) . 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
  
Figure 1  Campbell diagram in the side -side direction, showing the observed resonance 
frequencies with the SHM system.  
 
To develop an ice indicator for wind turbines, it is essential to focus on 
frequencies that are sensitive towards icin g such as the whirling modes. However, 
there is a significant difference between the operating conditions of a turbine during 
parked and operation. For instance, during parked conditions, the rotor speed 
influences disappear on those modes, hence these mod es depend solely on 
environmental factors.  In contrast, during operation, the harmonic and the rotor 
speed effect come into play.  Since the behavior of the rotor modes differ depending 
on the operating state, a single model is not sufficient to detect ic ing in these two 
states. Therefore, the data was divided accordingly so an ice indicator can be built 
for each parked and operational conditions. The environmental variabilities on both 
data must be compensated so that the study would be limited to structu ral changes 
such as ice forming on the blade. The final stage of making an ice indicator is 
anomaly detection. Rotor icing is considered as anomaly since it is not present in the 
data during nominal conditions. Hence, to detect icing is to detect points th at lie 
outside the normal distribution of the normalized data. The ice indicator used in this 
study is the Mahalanobis distance which is given by the following equation (1).  
 
𝐷2=(𝑥−𝑥̂)𝑇×𝐶−1×(𝑥−𝑥̂) (1) 
  
 
With D being the Mahalanobis distance, ( 𝑥−𝑥̂) is the variation of the modes 
from their mean and C is the co variance matrix  [6].The Mahalanobis  distance is  a 
statistical measure used to assess  the similarity/dissimilarity between points in a 
multivariate d ataset. It considers  the correlation between variables via the covariance 
matrix, which makes it  a useful tool to identify outliers. In theory, ice build -up will 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 affect multiple modes, and hence a high Mahalanobis distance will be computed as 
anomal ies will be found across different modes.  The Mahal anobis distance  squared  
follows a chi -square distribution,  and a typical practice is to select the  threshold for 
outliers as being  between the 95th and 99th percentile of the distribution.  
PARKED CONDITIONS  
The parked data is obtained by  focusing on data with low rot or speed (rpm<1). 
The emphasis  was on measurement points with sufficient wind speed  (above 3m /s) 
to excite the natural frequencies captured . Furthermore, t o ensure that physical 
modes  are captured , the analysis was limited to frequencies below 6 Hz and damping 
values below 10% . The modes were then tracked by specifying a certain threshold 
away from the frequency of interest,  typically 5%. Overall , 12 modes were tracked 
for each the Fore -aft and Side -Side.   
During standstill, the whirling modes will appear at slightly different frequency 
compared to operation case  especially with the effect of rotor speed  disappearing . 
Hence, t he emphasis was on using  the tracked  standstill modes that are close to  the 
whirling modes frequency  band  (1.25 Hz and 3.8 Hz)  for the ice indicator. Structural 
modes are less sensitive to icing;  hence they could reduce the performan ce of the ice 
indicator . Thus, they are not used to calculate the Mahalanobis distance . As data was 
sufficiently small to apply any advanced normalizing techniques, the correlation 
matrix, a linear correlation between influencing parameters (i.e. SCADA and 
temperature) and the frequencies, was used to check the influence of EOC on modes. 
Overal l, it was established that the correlation with EOC was weak and the 
Mahalanobis distance can be applied directly without any further normalization 
process. The ice indicator using the Mahalanobis distance during parked conditions 
is shown in Figure 2.  
As shown in Figure 2, a period stood out (27th of January) with few points 
cross ing the assigned threshold. The outliers found were the points with the lowest 
frequency  during this period . Observing the behavior of the modes in this period , it 
was found the frequenc ies were  increas ing back to nominal values. This was seen 
across both structural modes and the standstill rotor modes. Moreover, this occurred 
during low temperatures which is suited for icing conditions . The frequency might 
be returning to the nominal values after the ice s tarted to melt or fall off the rotor. 
This behavior is important to detect  as the operation can be resumed once the 
frequenc ies are back to nominal values. This period can be investigated during 
operating conditions to infer what might have occurred leadin g up to parked 
conditions.  What is expected to be seen is that the frequencies decreased leading up 
to shut down  due to the addition mass of ice forming on the blades.  
 
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
  
Figure 2 Ice indicator built using the Mahalanobis distance  during standstill ( Red dash line ) 
threshold set using 97.5th percentile of the distribution ( Red dots ) outliers.  
 
OPERATING CONDITONS  
In operation state, the objective  is to detect ice accretion on the blades, and hence 
a frequency decrease  so a safety shutdown can be performed. However, to make an 
ice indicator  similar to  parked conditions, the whirling modes must be tracked first . 
However, during operation,  the whirling is also dependent on the rotor speed and a 
simple  fixed boundaries tracking is not sufficient to capture those modes . In [7] , it 
is assumed that the whirling modes vary linearly with the rotor speed at a rate of 1p 
via the following equations : 
 
𝑓𝑏𝑤,𝑓𝑤=𝑓𝑤∓𝑟𝑝𝑚/60 
 
 (2) 
 
In practice, the variation of the whirling modes is not a linear behavior as other 
influencing factors can come to play such as the EOC effects. Nonetheless, using 
those equations it is possible to isolate the frequency of interest. Fitting the bi -linear 
mode l found in equation ( 2), frequencies within 5% tolerance away from the model 
are captured . Even  though the linear assumption is not ideal, the whirling modes are 
still captured sufficiently. The data now can undergo a normalization process.  
To normalize the data, random forest regressors are used to predict the influence 
of the EOC. Some parameters  required normalization before feeding it to the 
algorithm such as the yaw angle. The yaw angle varies from 0 to 360 degrees; 
however, without normalization the algorithm would not consider 360 and 0 as 
successive angles. To deal with this, the cosine and sine of the yaw angle are used 
instead. Moreover, some feature engineering was introduced to link some parameters 
to each other. Feature engineering is the process of feeding a nondimensional 
parameter that links different features to each other to aid the  algorithm in learning 
the relationship between the different features more efficiently. In the case of wind 
turbines, the feature engineering parameters that are used are the capacity factor and 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 the tip speed ratio.  TABLE  I  summarizes the input and output of the algorithm used 
to normalized the data.  The flap wise modes are associated with the direction 
perpendicular to airflow, while the edge wise modes are parallel to airflow.  
 
TABLE  I RANDOM FOREST REGRE SSOR INP UTS AND  OUTP UTS  
 
The data was split into three datasets: training, validation, and testing, with a 
corresponding size of 61%, 14% and 25%, respectively. The training was carried out 
during February and March. The validation dataset was used to tune the model before 
using it on testing dataset. Th e testing dataset was the month of January as it is a 
period with low est temperatures,  and hence has the highest chance of icing  occurring 
within it.  Moreover, it is of interest to investiga te the period found in the pervious 
section, 27th of January,  to analysis what occurred leading up to shut down.  
Subtracting  the model from the measurements and evaluating the residual using the 
Mahalanobis distance, the ice indicator found in Figure 3 is constructed. At the 
beginning of January, the Mahalanobis distance gradually increased until it reached 
the assigned threshold with a clear bump observed in Figure 3. Zooming in on the 
(1) and (2), a frequency drop occurred during the night of (1) which then propagated 
into the (2). Moreover, during (2) the normalized frequency was below the nominal 
values throughout the day with the alarm triggered during the morning  and during 
the evening. This might indicate a light icing period as the frequencies decreased; 
Nonetheless, no shutdown occurred during those periods.  
On the  other  hand, the (3) was a very clear outlier period with a very high 
Mahalanobis distance. Looki ng at (3), it could be seen that the frequency was 
gradually decreasing until a shutdown occurred. This coincides with the parked 
condition results where the frequencies were recovering after the shutdown  during 
the 27th of January . What can be inferred is  that ice builds up on the blades leading 
up to a shut down by the operator.  Then  as was found in  pervious section  (PARKED 
CONDITIONS ), once the turbine was shut down, ice started fallin g off or melting 
down of the blades leading to reduction of mass and increase of frequency.  Thus, 
this demonstrates that it is feasible to detect icing using measurements from the tower 
in both operating states.   Features (Symbol, unit)  Feature Engineering (unitless)  Variables to 
predict (unit)  
• Yaw  (∅,°) 
• Pitch (𝛽,°) 
• Wind speed ( v, m/s) 
• Rotational  
speed (𝜔,𝑟𝑎𝑑/𝑠) 
• Temperature (T, ℃) 
• Power (P, W)  
• Density (𝜌,𝑘𝑔/𝑚3) 
 • Tip speed ratio  
TSR=𝑅𝑎𝑑𝑖𝑢𝑠×𝜔
𝑣 
• Capacity factor  
𝐶𝑝=𝑃
0.5×𝑣3×𝜌×𝐴 
• sin∅,cos∅ 
 • Edgewise 
whirling 
modes (Hz)  
•  Flap-wise 
whirling 
modes (Hz)  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
  
Figure 3 (Upper) Normalized frequency  of points  that crossed the threshold  (Red) outlier zone 
(Lower) Ice indicator built using the Mahalanobis distance ( Red dash line ) threshold set using 9 9.9th 
percentile of the distribution ( Red dots ) outliers.  (1) 04/01/2021 (2) 05/01/2021 (3) 27/01/2021.  
 
CONCLUSION  
The research has  demonstrated the use of rotor modes observed from the tower  
to detect icing . This technique offers  a cost-effective solution  due to its installation 
and the ease of sensor replacement compared to similar technologies  which rely on 
sensors  installed  in the rotor . This could potentia lly provide an economical solution 
to reduce the risk of ice thrown towards  inhabitants  in densely populated areas with 
low icing occurrence . This  method showed its ability to detect icing during both 
parked and operating conditions.  The ice indicator was realized through  normalizing 
the EOC effects and evaluating the residual via computing the Mahalanobis distance. 
Future research  is investigating the feasibility of using the same trained model across 
multiple turbines .  
(2) (1) 
(3) 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 REFERENCES  
 
[1]  A. Faizan and V. Muhammad, "Review of Icing Effects on Wind Turbine in Cold 
Regions," in The International Conference on Electrical Engineering and Green Energy , 
2018.  
[2]  Meteotest, "Evaluation of Ice Detection Systems for Wind Turbines,," Research Gate, 
2016.  
[3]  W. Weijtjens, L. Avendaño, C. Devriendt and E. Chatzi, "Cost -effective Vibration 
Based Detection of," in Conference: 9th European Workshop on Structural Health 
Monitoring , Manchester, 2018.  
[4]  E. Cappello, "Condition Monitoring of a Wind Turbine Rotor by Tower Measurments 
and Analysis," 2016.  
[5]  C. Devriendt, F. Magalha˜es, W. Weijtens, G. Sitter, A. l. Cunha and P. Guillaume, 
"Structural health monitoring of offshore wind turbines using automated operational modal 
analysis," Sage jounrals, vol. 13, no. 6, p. 644 –659, 2014.  
[6]  P. Fizmoser, R. Garret and R. Clemens, "Multivariate outlier detection in exploration 
geochemistry," Computers & Geosciences , vol. 176, pp. 579 -587, 2005.  
[7]  W. Weijtjens and C. Devriendt, "Automated OMA for Monit oring Wind Turbine Blade 
Modes from the," in 8th International Operational Modal Analysis Conference , 
Copenhagen, 2019.  
 
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
