Citation: Cai, C.; Guo, J.; Song, X.;
Zhang, Y.; Wu, J.; Tang, S.; Jia, Y.;
Xing, Z.; Li, Q. Review of
Data-Driven Approaches for Wind
Turbine Blade Icing Detection.
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617. https://
doi.org/10.3390/su15021617
Academic Editors: Doug Arent,
Adam Warren and Xiaolei Yang
Received: 15 November 2022
Revised: 5 January 2023
Accepted: 11 January 2023
Published: 13 January 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sustainability
Review
Review of Data-Driven Approaches for Wind T urbine Blade
Icing Detection
Chang Cai1, Jicai Guo2,3, Xiaowen Song2,3,*
, Yanfeng Zhang2,3, Jianxin Wu2,3, Shufeng Tang2,3, Yan Jia4,
Zhitai Xing4and Qing’an Li1,*
1Institute of Engineering Thermophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China
2College of Mechanical Engineering, Inner Mongolia University of Technology, Hohhot 010051, China
3Inner Mongolia Key Laboratory of Special Service Intelligent Robotics, Hohhot 010051, China
4College of Energy and Power Engineering, Inner Mongolia University of Technology, Hohhot 010051, China
*Correspondence: sxw_istgut@imut.edu.cn (X.S.); liqingan@iet.cn (Q.L.)
Abstract: Onshore wind turbines are primarily installed in high-altitude areas with good wind
energy resources. However, in winter, the blades are easy to ice, which will seriously impact their
aerodynamic performance, as well as the power and service life of the wind turbine. Therefore, it
is of great practical signiﬁcance to predict wind turbine blade icing in advance and take measures
to eliminate the adverse effects of icing. Along these lines, three approaches to supervisory control
and data acquisition (SCADA) data feature selection were summarized in this work. The problems
of imbalance between positive and negative sample datasets, the underutilization of SCADA data
time series information, the scarcity of high-quality labeled data, and weak model generalization
capabilities faced by data-driven approaches in wind turbine blade icing detection, were reviewed.
Finally, some future trends in data-driven approaches were discussed. Our work provides guidance
for the use of technical means in the actual detection of wind turbine blades. In addition, it also gives
some insights to the further research of fault diagnosis technology.
Keywords: wind turbine; SCADA; data-driven approaches; blade icing detection
1. Introduction
With the rapid growth of the economy and population, global energy consumption
is expected to be doubled by 2050, and more severe energy challenges will arise in the
future [ 1]. For the sustainable development of humanity and the protection of the eco-
logical environment, China has already formulated the goal of carbon neutrality in 2060.
Simultaneously, some of the world’s largest countries are also beginning to take the concept
of carbon neutrality seriously and practice it. To solve the above-mentioned problems, it
is urgent to develop renewable energy sources. Under this perspective, wind energy is
regarded as the most widely used renewable energy in the world. The total number and
annual growth of global wind turbine assemblers since 2015 are depicted in Figure 1 [ 2].
As can be observed, from 2015 to 2021, the global total installed capacity continued to grow
steadily, with a cumulative global installed capacity of 837 GW by 2021. From 2015 to 2019,
the global annual growth of wind turbines was about 50 GW. After 2019, the annual growth
of wind turbines reached 90 GW. Thus, it is foreseeable that wind energy will play a more
critical role in the future.
To make full use of wind energy, wind farms are usually located in high-altitude areas,
which are normally far away from human communities. Within 1000 m above sea level,
the wind speed is increased by approximately 0.1 m/s for every 100 m of altitude gain,
while the wind energy is proportional to the cube of the wind speed [ 3]. With the increase
in altitude, the temperature will also decrease, and the density of the cold air is higher
than that of the warm air, as a result, the wind energy potential in the alpine region is
10% higher than in other areas [ 4]. However, it is challenging to operate wind turbines in
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617. https://doi.org/10.3390/su15021617 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 2 of 20
areas over 1000 m, and some problems are often encountered, such as the failure of the
measuring instruments [ 5]. In winter, wind turbines in alpine regions are easily exposed to
low-hanging clouds in which blades are very prone to icing. A close-up of a wind turbine
blade icing up is displayed in Figure 2 [ 6]. Nowadays, about one-third of the wind turbines
around the world operate in cold environments [ 7], and most of them suffer from the
blade icing problem. The most intuitive impact of blade icing is the reduction of the power
generation of the wind turbines. P érez et al. [ 8] analyzed 517 wind turbines in Spain and
found that the power loss caused by the blade icing effect reached as much as 18 GWh in 29
months, which was estimated to be 550 GWh of the annual power loss due to blade icing
over the country, that is equivalent to the electricity consumption of 200,000 households.
In addition, Lehtomäki et al. [ 9] studied the wind turbine data at two sites in Canada and
Sweden and concluded that blade icing increased the transverse fatigue load on the tower
base and affected the service life of the wind turbines. Otherwise, the icing of the blades
could increase noise pollution and affect the life of the surrounding staff. On top of that,
ice shed and ice throw may destroy equipment, even causing people injury and death [ 10].
Therefore, early detection of blade icing is considered of great importance in ensuring the
safe operation and power production of wind turbines.
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  2 of 22 
 
 
Figure 1. Global total installed wind turbines and annual growth from 2015 to 2021. [2] . 
To make full use of wind energy, wind farms are usually located in high -altitude 
areas, which are normally far away from human communities. Within 1000 m above sea 
level, the wind speed is increased by approximately 0.1 m/s for every 100 m of altitude 
gain, while the w ind energy is proportional to the cube of the wind speed [3]. With the 
increase in altitude, the temperature will also decrease, and the density of the cold air is 
higher than that of the warm air, as a result, the wind energy potential in the alpine regio n 
is 10% higher than in other areas [4]. However, it is challenging to operate wind turbines 
in areas over 1000 m, and some problems are often encountered, such as the failure of the 
measuring instruments [5]. In winter, wind turbines in alpine regions are  easily exposed 
to low -hanging clouds in which blades are very prone to icing. A close -up of a wind tur-
bine blade icing up is displayed in Figure 2 [6]. Nowadays, about one -third of the wind 
turbines around the world operate in cold environments [7], and m ost of them suffer from 
the blade icing problem. The most intuitive impact of blade icing is the reduction of the 
power generation of the wind turbines. Pérez et al. [8] analy zed 517 wind turbines in Spain 
and found that the power loss caused by the blade icing effect reached as much as 18 GWh 
in 29 months, which was estimated to be 550 GWh of the annual power loss due to blade 
icing over the country , that is equivalent to the electricity consumption of 200,000 house-
holds. In addition, Lehtomäki et al. [9] studied the wind turbine data at two sites in Can-
ada and Sweden and concluded that blade icing increased the transverse fatigue load on 
the tower base and affected the service life of the wind turbines. Otherwise, the icing of 
the blades could increase noi se pollution and affect the life of the surrounding staff. On 
top of that, ice shed and ice throw may destroy equipment, even causing people injury 
and death [10]. Therefore, early detection of blade icing is considered of great importance 
in ensuring the safe operation and power production of wind turbines.  63 54 53 50 6095 93433487541591650742837
0100200300400500600700800900
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021Installed capacity [GW]
Yearannual increment total installed
Figure 1. Global total installed wind turbines and annual growth from 2015 to 2021. [2].
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  3 of 22 
 
 
Figure 2. Close -up of wind turbine blade icing  (adapted from [6]).  
At present, the icing environments of wind turbines are defined as when the temper-
ature is below 0 °C and the relative humidity is over 95% [11]. However, Laakso et al. [12] 
found that in most cases, when the temperature was lower than the value of 0 °C, and the 
relative humidity was higher than 95%, the blades did not ice. In actual operation, the 
deviation between the ac tual power and the theoretical power of the wind turbine is used 
by the staff as the criterion for blade icing. When  the deviation reached a specific value 
(i.e., 15% in usual), an alarm was triggered, and the wind turbine was then stopped. How-
ever, when the alarm was triggered, there was already a relatively large area of ice on the 
blade [13,14]. Although many wind tu rbines have been equipped with de -icing systems, 
the challenge in practice is to detect early the icing effect accurately and turn on the de -
icing system in time. Later, the implementation of sensors was reported in the literature 
to detect changes in the physical properties of blades to determine whether the blades 
were iced. More specifically, Berbyuk et al. [15] used controlled acoustic waves propagat-
ing in the wind turbine blades to detect early icing. Interestingly, when the blade starts 
icing, the Fou rier transform, amplitude attenuation, and the root mean square of the 
guided wave propagation changed significantly. Muñoz et al. [16] proposed a non -contact 
infrared sensor method to examine if blades were iced since the emitted thermal radiation 
signals  by the blade surface are significantly different from those emitted during non -icing 
conditions. Kim et al. [17] detected the icing condition of the blade by arranging optical 
fiber optic sensors on the blade. The transition in Fresnel reflection due to t he icing effect 
gives unusual intensity variations, which are used to identify the ice on the wind turbine 
blades. Although the above -mentioned methods are highly accurate in detecting blade 
ice, they are complex and highly dependent on expertise. Moreover , the majority of wind 
turbines in service do not have those specific sensing elements and often require addi-
tional installation costs. Therefore, these specialized ice identification methods are not 
used on many large -scale  wind turbines in practice.  
In recent years, SCADA systems have evolved the standard configuration of large -
scale wind turbines. Moreover, the SCADA system contains many state monitoring data 
of the wind turbine’s components or subsystems, such as environmental parameters, 
working condit ions, and control parameters, which can comprehensively monitor the 
state of the wind turbines through an economical and convenient method [18]. Further-
more, improvements in data mining techniques have made it possible to detect blade icing 
based on the ap plication of data -driven approach es. 
Therefore, this paper reviewed and summarized the recent research on the data -
driven approaches diagnosis of wind turbine blade icing. In the second section, the data -
driven approaches and the feature selection were int roduced and data imbalance issues 
were considered when modelling. In the third section, the time series information of 
Figure 2. Close-up of wind turbine blade icing (adapted from [6]).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 3 of 20
At present, the icing environments of wind turbines are deﬁned as when the tempera-
ture is below 0C and the relative humidity is over 95% [ 11]. However, Laakso et al. [ 12]
found that in most cases, when the temperature was lower than the value of 0C, and
the relative humidity was higher than 95%, the blades did not ice. In actual operation,
the deviation between the actual power and the theoretical power of the wind turbine is
used by the staff as the criterion for blade icing. When the deviation reached a speciﬁc
value (i.e., 15% in usual), an alarm was triggered, and the wind turbine was then stopped.
However, when the alarm was triggered, there was already a relatively large area of ice
on the blade [ 13,14]. Although many wind turbines have been equipped with de-icing
systems, the challenge in practice is to detect early the icing effect accurately and turn
on the de-icing system in time. Later, the implementation of sensors was reported in the
literature to detect changes in the physical properties of blades to determine whether the
blades were iced. More speciﬁcally, Berbyuk et al. [ 15] used controlled acoustic waves
propagating in the wind turbine blades to detect early icing. Interestingly, when the blade
starts icing, the Fourier transform, amplitude attenuation, and the root mean square of the
guided wave propagation changed signiﬁcantly. Muñoz et al. [ 16] proposed a non-contact
infrared sensor method to examine if blades were iced since the emitted thermal radiation
signals by the blade surface are signiﬁcantly different from those emitted during non-icing
conditions. Kim et al. [ 17] detected the icing condition of the blade by arranging optical
ﬁber optic sensors on the blade. The transition in Fresnel reﬂection due to the icing effect
gives unusual intensity variations, which are used to identify the ice on the wind turbine
blades. Although the above-mentioned methods are highly accurate in detecting blade
ice, they are complex and highly dependent on expertise. Moreover, the majority of wind
turbines in service do not have those speciﬁc sensing elements and often require additional
installation costs. Therefore, these specialized ice identiﬁcation methods are not used on
many large-scale wind turbines in practice.
In recent years, SCADA systems have evolved the standard conﬁguration of large-
scale wind turbines. Moreover, the SCADA system contains many state monitoring data
of the wind turbine’s components or subsystems, such as environmental parameters,
working conditions, and control parameters, which can comprehensively monitor the state
of the wind turbines through an economical and convenient method [ 18]. Furthermore,
improvements in data mining techniques have made it possible to detect blade icing based
on the application of data-driven approaches.
Therefore, this paper reviewed and summarized the recent research on the data-driven
approaches diagnosis of wind turbine blade icing. In the second section, the data-driven
approaches and the feature selection were introduced and data imbalance issues were
considered when modelling. In the third section, the time series information of SCADA
data was explored. In the fourth section, the focus led on the semi-supervised learning
methods, as well as the implementation of unlabeled data. Finally, in the ﬁfth section, the
application of the transfer learning method in blade icing detection was introduced.
2. Data-Driven Approaches in Blade Icing Detection
Data-driven fault diagnosis approaches is considered a method that can complete
the fault diagnosis of the system by analyzing and processing the process operation data
without knowing the accurate analytical model of the system [ 19]. Particularly, the data-
driven turbine blade icing diagnosis approaches mainly focuses on the use of artiﬁcial
intelligence algorithms to learn hidden information in the historical data to detect blade
icing. According to the output variables, the data-driven icing diagnosis research can be
divided into regression and classiﬁcation tasks.
The regression task predicts state variables of the wind turbines, such as the active
power on the grid side, the rotor speed, etc. The operating parameters closely related to
the prediction variables are used as the model’s inputs, while the normal SCADA data are
utilized to train the model. Then, the model’s predicted values are compared with the actual
measured values, and the judging criteria are set according to the statistical knowledge or
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 4 of 20
algorithm. If the residual error between the predicted and the actual measured values does
not meet the judging criteria, the unit may be in the icing state. Guo et al. [ 20] analyzed
the inﬂuence of the blade icing effect on the operation parameters of wind turbines. More
speciﬁcally, the power, rotor speed, and ambient temperature were selected to detect blade
icing. The normal behavior models of power and rotor speed were constructed by using
the extreme gradient Boosting (XGBoost) method, and the sequential probability ratio test
(SPRT) was introduced to analyze the model prediction residuals to identify the abnormal
changes in the output power and rotor speed. Blade icing warnings were issued when
the residual difference between the predicted and actual values of power and rotor speed
were detected to be above the threshold at the same time and the ambient temperature was
below zero. The authors found that the proposed blade icing detection method can warn
wind turbines 5 h before the shutdown moment by icing. The principle of this technique is
illustrated in Figure 3. Similarly, Fan et al. [21] established power and rotor speed models
by using by adaptive boosting (AdaBoost) algorithm and introduced the exponentially
weighted moving average method to analyze residuals.
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  4 of 22 
 
SCADA data was explored. In the fourth section, the focus led on the semi -supervised 
learning methods, as well as the implementation of u nlabeled data. Finally, in the fifth 
section, the application of the transfer learning method in blade icing detection was intro-
duced.  
2. Data -Driven Approaches in Blade Icing Detection  
Data -driven fault diagnosis approaches is considered a method that can  complete the 
fault diagnosis of the system by analy zing and processing the process operation data with-
out knowing the accurate analytical model of the system [19]. Particularly, the data -driven 
turbine blade icing diagnosis approaches mainly focuses on th e use of artificial intelli-
gence algorithms to learn hidden information in the historical data to detect blade icing. 
According to the output variables, the data -driven icing diagnosis research can be divided 
into regression and classification tasks.  
The r egression task predicts state variables of the wind turbines, such as the active 
power on the grid side, the rotor speed, etc. The operating parameters closely related to 
the prediction variables are used as the model’s inputs, while the normal SCADA data are 
utilized to train the model. Then, the model’s predicted values are compared with the 
actual measured values, and the judging criteria  are set according to the statistical 
knowledge or algorithm. If the residual error between the predicted and the actu al meas-
ured values does not meet the judging criteria, the unit may be in the icing state. Guo et 
al. [20] analy zed the influence of the blade icing effect on the operation parameters of wind 
turbines. More specifically, the power, rotor speed, and ambient  temperature were se-
lected to detect blade icing. The normal behavior models of power and rotor speed were 
constructed by using the extreme  gradient Boosting  (XGBoost) method, and the sequential 
probability ratio test (SPRT) was introduced to analy ze the m odel prediction residuals to 
identify the abnormal changes in the output power and rotor speed. Blade icing warnings 
were issued when the residual difference between the predicted and actual values of 
power and rotor speed were detected to be above the thr eshold at the same time and the 
ambient temperature was below zero. The authors found that the proposed blade icing 
detection method can warn wind turbines 5 h before the shutdown moment by icing. The 
principle of this technique is illustrated in Figure 3.  Similarly, Fan et al. [21] established 
power and rotor speed models by using by adaptive  boosting  (AdaBoost) algorithm and 
introduced the exponentially weighted moving average method to analy ze residuals.  
 
Figure 3.  Principle of blade icing detection by regression task (adapted from [20]) . 
The operational parameters of the wind turbines predicted by the regression tasks 
are continuous variables. The classification task outputs are discrete variables that char-
acterize if the SCADA data refers to icing. The  typical evaluation indexes include accu-
racy, precision, recall, F1 score, etc. During the classification task, if the massive high -
Figure 3. Principle of blade icing detection by regression task (adapted from [20]).
The operational parameters of the wind turbines predicted by the regression tasks are
continuous variables. The classiﬁcation task outputs are discrete variables that characterize
if the SCADA data refers to icing. The typical evaluation indexes include accuracy, precision,
recall, F1 score, etc. During the classiﬁcation task, if the massive high-dimensional SCADA
data are directly input into the learning model, too much redundant information will affect
the model’s performance. Moreover, most wind turbines work under normal conditions,
resulting in a signiﬁcant imbalance in the SCADA data. Therefore, feature selection and
data imbalance must be considered in constructing the model.
2.1. Feature Selection Problem
In practice, the SCADA system records many state monitoring data of the wind
turbine components or subsystems with hundreds of dimensions. Hence, the selection
of the effective characteristics that can characterize the icing effect of wind turbines is
a problem worthy of consideration. Although some variables have been selected in the
literature according to relevant ﬁeld knowledge, redundant information still prevents the
model from achieving the desired effect. Because of the above-mentioned problems, the
SCADA data feature selection has been examined in the literature. Li et al. [ 22] considered
the actual situation of wind turbine icing by selecting two sensitive features, namely
wind speed and power. The non-principal component direction value of the wind speed
and power were the input of the classiﬁer and by using logistic regression, the optimal
model was found by setting different discriminant thresholds. Based on expert knowledge,
Zhou et al. [ 23] selected the wind speed, power, environment temperature, and nacelle
internal temperature from the SCADA data. The authors constructed four derived variables
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 5 of 20
including residuals of the normal ﬁt speed and the generator speed, the residuals of the
actual power and the theoretical power, the residual between the environment and the
internal temperature, as well as the non-principal component direction values of the wind
speed and power as the input of the support vector machine, whereas the particle swarm
optimization was used to establish an icing detection model. Zhang et al. [ 24] selected wind
speed and power as two essential characteristics and constructed six characteristics, such
as: average wind speed (V); average power (P); the degree of deviation of P(C); the average
rate of change of C ( DC); the maximum value of C (max C); and the cumulative value of
DC (sum DC), which were then used the random forest to detect blade iced. Additionally,
Ma et al. [ 25] proposed a blade icing detection method based on a deep belief network
(DBN) by selecting six different features, such as wind speed, power, and environment
temperature, according to the relationship model between icing, and the wind turbine
performance.
Nevertheless, the aforementioned method of manually extracting features is labor-
intensive and strongly dependent on expert knowledge and skills [ 26]. The good or bad
feature extraction affect also dramatically the performance of the model. Later, features
were ﬁltered based on algorithms. Ye et al. [ 27] proposed a feature screening method by
combining the chi-square test and principal component analysis (PCA). The chi2 algorithm
was used to select the top 10 feature parameters, and then the PCA algorithm was used to
reduce the dimension of the feature parameters after the preliminary screening to reduce
the redundancy between features. Besides, Peng et al. [ 28] extracted three features, yaw
position, internal temperature, and generator speed, by using the highest correlation with
wind turbine blade icing through dynamic PCA and Elman neural network. Then, they
were input into the back propagation (BP) neural network for clustering judgment. From the
experimental results, it was demonstrated that the prediction value of the Elman artiﬁcial
neural network was better than that of support vector regression for the discrimination of
the BP artiﬁcial neural network clustering. Li et al. [ 29] obtained the characteristic variables
related to blade icing by using the extraction algorithm of the reward extremum and then
a blade icing detection model was established based on a logistic regression algorithm
from many historical monitoring data denoised by the wavelet transform method. Jia
et al. [ 30] used a slow feature analysis (SFA) algorithm to extract the slow features of the
original SCADA data as input from a support vector machine (SVM). The slow feature
contained temporal information more in line with the wind turbine icing process. For a
single wind turbine, when the number of slowly varying features was ﬁve, the model error
rate in this paper’s test set was 23.4%, while the minimum error rate of the SVM trained
directly with the original SCADA data was 31.7%. It is also worth noting that if the data
dimension was improperly selected, the model’s performance worsened. When the feature
dimension was reduced to three, the model’s error rate reached 54.7%. Zhang et al. [ 31]
proposed a feature extraction method based on MIV-tSNE. The mean impact value (MIV)
algorithm was also used to eliminate variables with a MIV index of less than one. Then,
the t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (tSNE) algorithm was employed to map
the selected characteristic variables to speciﬁc dimensions as the input of the recurrent
neural network. The model’s accuracy on the test set can reach about 72% for a single
wind turbine. Interestingly, compared to traditional recurrent neural networks (RNN), the
prediction accuracy was improved by about 150%, and the model run-time was reduced by
about 45%.
In addition, compelling features were extracted from the original SCADA data set
based on domain knowledge and algorithms. Furthermore, Chen et al. [ 32] combined
the mechanism model by using the decision tree for feature screening and selecting eight
features, such as wind speed and power, and used a convolutional neural network (CNN)
to construct an icing detection model for the wind turbine blades. Based on domain
knowledge and the wrapper method, Di et al. [ 33] performed feature selection on the wind
turbine SCADA data, and selected 10 features, such as power, generator speed, temperature
difference environment and nacelle, and wind speed, while the XGBoost was applied to
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 6 of 20
construct a wind turbine blade iced detection model. Meng et al. [ 34] proposed a feature
selection method based on the implementation of a recursive feature elimination -random
forest (RF) method. According to the inﬂuencing factors of wind turbine icing and artiﬁcial
experience, four different features of wind speed, power, internal nacelle temperature,
and environment temperature were selected for the cross-feature construction. Then, the
proposed method was used to screen the original and the newly constructed features, and
the top 12 feature attributes were selected as the model’s input. From the experimental
results, it was suggested that the accuracy of the model test set increased after feature
selection. Hai et al. [ 35] combined the Makkonen and the rotating object icing models. After
performing PCA analysis, the wind speed ( v) and the power, environment temperature,
v3
!+1/2v2
P(vwrefers to the directional component of the velocity of the water droplet on
the surface of the accumulated ice in the rotating coordinate system normal to the surface,
and vPrepresents the rotating speed for wind blade), and the Pa/v3(Pastands for the
work absorbed by the blades from the wind energy) were selected as inputs to the support
vector machine for the particle swarm optimization. Nie et al. [ 36] selected four essential
features, such as wind speed and power, and the original feature set was expanded by
feature crossover. The recursive feature elimination algorithm was also used to select 19
features with high weight scores, such as the wind speed and environment temperature, as
the model’s input. The data coupling was signiﬁcantly reduced by PCA, and the improved
sparrow search algorithm was introduced to establish the long short-term memory (LSTM)
network icing detection model. Tang et al. [ 37] formulated 13 sensitive features, such as
the wind speed power ratio and blade angle average, by performing a qualitative analysis
of the icing mechanism and merging them with 26 features of the original dataset. Then,
they were the recursive feature elimination cross validation algorithm was used to select 15
features, such as the generator speed, active power, and yaw position as the input of the
fully connected neural network.
As far as feature engineering problems are concerned, the reviewed works in the
literature can be classiﬁed into three types: mechanism-based feature selection, algorithm-
based feature selection, and mechanism+algorithm-based feature selection. Table 1 displays
a categorization of these works by their methodological method.
Table 1. Categorization of feature selection solutions by methodology.
Methods References Base Features Advantages Disadvantages
Mechanism-based methodLi et al. [22]
Zhou et al. [23]
Zhang et al. [24]
Ma et al. [25]Wind speed, power, etc.
The residuals of actual power and the
theoretical power, etc.
Degree of deviation of P(C), the
maximum value of C (max C), etc.
Wind speed, power, environment
temperature etc.The extracted features are
highly accurate and relatively
simple to model.Manual extraction of features
is labor-intensive and overly
dependent on domain
knowledge.
Algorithm-based methodYe et al. [27]
Peng et al. [28]
Li et al. [29]
Jia et al. [30]
Zhang et al. [31]Generator speed, pitch angle, motor
temperature, etc.
Yaw position, internal temperature,
generator speed, etc.
Yaw position, Wind Speed Face (Upwind
speed), pitch angle, etc.
Dimensionality reduction of raw
26-dimensional SCADA data using the
SFA algorithm works best at dimension 5.
Pitch1_ng5_tmp, Generator speed,
Pitch2_moto_tmp, etc.Selecting features from the
algorithm level reduces labor
and decreases model
complexity and run time.May be losing useful
information.
Mechanism+algorithm-based
methodChen et al. [32]
Di et al. [33]
Meng et al. [34]
Hai et al. [35]
Nie et al. [36]
Tang et al. [37]Angle_avg (the average of three pitch
angle), etc.
Power, generator speed, etc.
Wind speed, power, internal nacelle
temperature, environment temperature,
etc.
Wind speed, power, environment
temperature, etc.
Wind speed, power, etc.
The wind speed power ratio, blade angle
average, etc.Avoid the impact of manual
feature selection and the loss
of some information, more
comprehensive consideration,
required.More labor-intensive,
potentially increasing the
complexity of the model.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 7 of 20
2.2. Data Imbalance Problem
In the supervised learning mode, the classiﬁcation tasks need to learn the hidden
information of the normal and iced data in the training stage. However, most of the
working time of the unit is in the normal state, and only a few of the time is in an icing
state. Therefore, the data recorded by SCADA show a great imbalance. The model trained
with unbalanced data gives a biased prediction [ 38]. The sample imbalance of SCADA
data has been also explored in the literature, and the solutions can be roughly divided into
two categories. One is data-based, such as large sample under-sampling or small sample
over-sampling. In the previously reported work, Chen et al. [ 32] eliminated the inﬂuence
of sample imbalance by using 28 s average under-sampling normal samples. Ye et al. [ 27]
used the synthetic minority over-sampling technique (SMOTE) algorithm to oversample a
few samples for the problem of sample imbalance, whereas the Tomek links algorithm was
employed to clean the noise samples and boundary samples in the data set. Finally, the
authors used the random forest algorithm to establish the icing classiﬁcation model. On top
of that, Xu et al. [ 39] ﬁrst removed some samples that were obviously not iced according to
the actual situation of the blade icing effect, and then an under-sampling algorithm was
proposed based on the similarity function to remove the redundant normal samples. The
SMOTE algorithm was also to generate iced samples to ensure data balance. Similarly,
Zhang et al. [24] utilized the SMOTE algorithm to increase the number of iced samples.
Since the SMOTE algorithm can synthesize a few classes of samples indiscriminately,
it leads to some redundancy in the synthesized samples, which can induce the boundary
confusion problem. For this reason, some novel oversampling algorithms have been
introduced for solving the data imbalance problem. Ge et al. [ 13] proposed an improved
SMOTE algorithm to conquer the data imbalance. More speciﬁcally, by introducing the
concept of sample density and dividing the concentration region to balance the sample
distribution, the mini-batch k-means algorithm (MBK-SMOTE) can avoid the redundancy
of the synthesized samples by using the SMOTE algorithm. The author used the random
forest to construct a model to detect when the wind turbine blades are iced. It was found
that the prediction effect of MBK-SMOTE was better than that of the other SMOTE methods.
Peng et al. [ 40] also proposed an over-sampling balancing algorithm, namely the safe circle
synthetic minority oversampling technology (SC-SMOTE) to optimize the data set, and an
improved k-nearest neighbor (KNN) method was used to construct a wind turbine blade
icing fault diagnosis model. By carrying out extensive experiments, the authors proved
that compared with the SMOTE algorithm, the SC-SMOTE algorithm had a better fault
diagnosis accuracy, which was 10.3% better than the SMOTE algorithm. Tang et al. [ 37]
utilized SVM-SMOTE to oversample a small number of iced samples and randomly under-
sampling most normal samples to balance the data set of the iced data with normal data.
Jiang et al. [ 41] used the adaptive synthetic method to oversample the wind turbine blade
icing (minority class) samples and improve the unbalanced data set of wind turbines. The
other was algorithm-based, such as using cost-sensitive or ensemble learning to reduce the
impact of data imbalance. In addition, Chen et al. [ 42] proposed a deep neural network
based on triplet loss. This method mapped SCADA data to a hypersphere, and after triplet
loss learning, the distance of similar data was near but further for different data in the
reconstruction space. By using such processing methods, the impact of data imbalance can
be signiﬁcantly reduced. The local and global features of the data were also considered to
introduce skip connections in the deep neural networks (DNN) model, and the SCADA
data of two other wind turbines were veriﬁed. The accuracy of this model can reach more
than 80%, the recall rate reached about 60%, and the overall performance of the model was
better than the traditional artiﬁcial neural network. The model framework is depicted in
Figure 4.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 8 of 20
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 22 
 
Since the SMOTE algorithm can synthesize a few classes of samples indiscriminately, 
it leads to some redundancy in the synthesized samples, which can induce the boundary 
confusion problem. For this reason, some no vel oversampling algorithms have been in-
troduced for solving the data imbalance problem. Ge et al. [13] proposed an improved 
SMOTE algorithm to conquer the data imbalance. More specifically , by introducing the 
concept of sample density and dividing the con centration region to balance the sample 
distribution, the mini -batch k -means algorithm (MBK -SMOTE) can avoid the redundancy 
of the synthesized samples by using the SMOTE algorithm. The author used the random 
forest to construct a model to detect when the w ind turbine blades are iced. It was found 
that the prediction effect of MBK -SMOTE was better than that of the other SMOTE meth-
ods. Peng et al. [40] also proposed an over -sampling balancing algorithm, namely the safe 
circle synthetic minority oversampling t echnology (SC -SMOTE) to optimize the data set , 
and an improved k -nearest neighbor  (KNN) method was used to construct a wind turbine 
blade icing fault diagnosis model. By carrying out extensive experiments, the authors 
proved that compared with the SMOTE al gorithm, the SC -SMOTE algorithm had a better 
fault diagnosis accuracy, which was 10.3% better than the SMOTE algorithm. Tang et al. 
[37] utilized SVM -SMOTE to oversample a small number of iced samples and randomly 
under -sampling most normal samples to bala nce the data set of the iced data with normal 
data. Jiang et al. [41] used the adaptive synthetic method to oversample the wind turbine 
blade icing (minority class) samples and improve the unbalanced data set of wind tur-
bines. The other was algorithm -based , such as using cost -sensitive or ensemble learning 
to reduce the impact of data imbalance. In addition, Chen et al. [42] proposed a deep neu-
ral network based on triplet loss. This method mapped SCADA data to a hypersphere, 
and after triplet loss learning,  the distance of similar data was near but further for different 
data in the reconstruction space. By using such processing methods, the impact of data 
imbalance can be significantly reduced. The local and global features of the data were also 
considered t o introduce skip connections in the deep neural networks (DNN) model, and 
the SCADA data of two other wind turbines were verified. The accuracy of this model can 
reach more than 80%, the recall rate reached about 60%, and the overall performance of 
the mod el was better than the traditional artificial neural network. The model framework 
is depicted in Figure 4.  
 
Figure 4. Deep neural network based on triple loss (adapted from [42]) . 
In addition, Peng et al. [43] introduced a focal loss function to replace the traditional 
cross -entropy loss function. As a result, the impact of the data imbalance was weakened 
by reducing the weight of the simple sample loss during the training process s ince focus-
ing on the training of samples with less data that are difficult to predict. Tong et al. [44] 
proposed a novel adaptive weighting strategy to eliminate the influence of data imbalance 
from the perspective of sample distribution information by usi ng the support vector data 
description method. The authors combined it with the traditional fixed weighting strategy 
to develop an adaptive weighted kernel extreme learning machine (AWKELM) algorithm. 
Moreover, the superiority of the AWKELM algorithm was v erified on two wind turbines, 
Figure 4. Deep neural network based on triple loss (adapted from [42]).
In addition, Peng et al. [ 43] introduced a focal loss function to replace the traditional
cross-entropy loss function. As a result, the impact of the data imbalance was weakened by
reducing the weight of the simple sample loss during the training process since focusing on
the training of samples with less data that are difﬁcult to predict. Tong et al. [ 44] proposed
a novel adaptive weighting strategy to eliminate the inﬂuence of data imbalance from the
perspective of sample distribution information by using the support vector data description
method. The authors combined it with the traditional ﬁxed weighting strategy to develop
an adaptive weighted kernel extreme learning machine (AWKELM) algorithm. Moreover,
the superiority of the AWKELM algorithm was veriﬁed on two wind turbines, with a 23%
improvement in the F1 score performance over WKELM. Ding et al. [ 45] combined the
ideas of under-sampling and ensemble learning to under-sample normal data to obtain
several subsets and assign icing data to each subset so that each subset was class balanced.
Then, several classiﬁcation models were obtained by training each subset using temporal
convolutional networks (TCN). Finally, the prediction results of all models were averaged
as the ﬁnal prediction results of the samples. The model framework is displayed in Figure 5.
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  9 of 22 
 
with a 23% improvement in the F1 score performance over WKELM. Ding et al. [45] com-
bined the ideas of under -sampling and ensemble learning to under -sample normal data 
to obtain several subsets and assign icing data to each sub set so that each subset was class 
balanced. Then , several classification models were  obtained by training each subset using 
temporal convolutional networks (TCN). Finally, the prediction results of all models were 
averaged as the final prediction results o f the samples.  The model framework is displayed 
in Figure 5.  
 
Figure 5. Blade icing method based on under -sampling and ensemble learning (adapted from [45]).  
In summary, to solve the problem of data imbalance, data -based and algorithm -
based methods are proposed, as presented in Table 2. The flow of the wind turbine blade 
icing classification model is roughly shown in Figure 6. First, the historical data recorded 
by the SCADA system was selected features and processed for data imbalance. Then , the 
model w as modelled by using artificial intelligence algorithms. Finally, the model was 
evaluated and optimized by using the test set.  
Table 2. Categorization of data imbalance solutions by methodology.  
Method s References  Characteristics  
Data -based  Ge et al . [13] 
Zhang et al. [24]  
Ye et al. [27]  
Chen et al. [32]  
Tang et al. [37]  
Xu et al. [39]  
Peng et al. [40]  
Jiang et al . [41] This method eliminates the ef-
fects of data imbalance, but in-
correct down -sampling can 
lose helpful information, and 
incorrect oversampling  can 
lead to overfitting problems.  
Algorithm -based  Chen et al. [42]  
Peng et al. [43]  
Tong et al . [44] 
Ding et al. [45]  This method eliminates the ef-
fects of data imbalance but 
may suffer from hyperparame-
ters or thresholds that are dif-
ficult to determine.  
Figure 5. Blade icing method based on under-sampling and ensemble learning (adapted from [45]).
In summary, to solve the problem of data imbalance, data-based and algorithm-based
methods are proposed, as presented in Table 2. The ﬂow of the wind turbine blade icing
classiﬁcation model is roughly shown in Figure 6. First, the historical data recorded by the
SCADA system was selected features and processed for data imbalance. Then, the model
was modelled by using artiﬁcial intelligence algorithms. Finally, the model was evaluated
and optimized by using the test set.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 9 of 20
Table 2. Categorization of data imbalance solutions by methodology.
Methods References Characteristics
Data-basedGe et al. [13]
Zhang et al. [24]
Ye et al. [27]
Chen et al. [32]
Tang et al. [37]
Xu et al. [39]
Peng et al. [40]
Jiang et al. [41]This method eliminates the effects of data
imbalance, but incorrect down-sampling
can lose helpful information, and incorrect
oversampling can lead to overﬁtting
problems.
Algorithm-basedChen et al. [42]
Peng et al. [43]
Tong et al. [44]
Ding et al. [45]This method eliminates the effects of data
imbalance but may suffer from
hyperparameters or thresholds that are
difﬁcult to determine.
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  10 of 22 
 
 
Figure 6. Flow chart of wind turbine blade icing classification model (adapted  from  [27]).  
3. Research on the Time Dimension of SCADA Data  
Wind turbine blade icing is considered a gradual process, and there is a correlation 
between before and after in t he time dimension. Hence, the SCADA data are essentially 
time series data, which is mostly ignored by the previously -mentioned works. In addition, 
to solve the data imbalance problem, the SMOTE algorithm has been also used to generate 
icing samples that wi ll destroy the characteristics of the SCADA data in the time dimen-
sion. Wang et al. [46] constructed time variation features based on the original data to 
solve this problem, while the DBN was used to construct the blade icing detection model. 
By consideri ng the time dimensional information of the SCADA data, Li et al. [47] used a 
sliding window to intercept time series segments from the original data as the training 
samples. In this way, each training sample represents the state of the wind turbines over 
a period of time rather than a moment in time, making it thus easier for the algorithm to 
learn the hidden knowledge of the SCADA data. To better learn the information between 
the time sequence fragments, Yuan et al. [48] proposed a wavelet -based fully conv olu-
tional neural network (FCNN), namely Wavelet  FCNN. The model framework is illus-
trated in Figure 7. The time -frequency domain information of SCADA data was learned 
by enforcing an orthogonal discrete wavelet transform. Based on this approach, the detec-
tion model was constructed by using the ensemble learning and CNN, and the global 
pooling layer was used instead of the fully connected layer to achieve the deep mining of 
SCADA time series samples. To further improve the robustness of this model, an anomaly  
monitoring algorithm combining the sliding windows and majority voting was designed 
during the simulation deployment stage. After the model predicted the real -time data, the 
multi -voting mechanism was used to determine whether the current data were abnorm al 
by considering the wind turbine’s state over  a while.  
Figure 6. Flow chart of wind turbine blade icing classiﬁcation model (adapted from [27]).
3. Research on the Time Dimension of SCADA Data
Wind turbine blade icing is considered a gradual process, and there is a correlation
between before and after in the time dimension. Hence, the SCADA data are essentially
time series data, which is mostly ignored by the previously-mentioned works. In addition,
to solve the data imbalance problem, the SMOTE algorithm has been also used to generate
icing samples that will destroy the characteristics of the SCADA data in the time dimension.
Wang et al. [ 46] constructed time variation features based on the original data to solve
this problem, while the DBN was used to construct the blade icing detection model. By
considering the time dimensional information of the SCADA data, Li et al. [ 47] used a
sliding window to intercept time series segments from the original data as the training
samples. In this way, each training sample represents the state of the wind turbines over
a period of time rather than a moment in time, making it thus easier for the algorithm to
learn the hidden knowledge of the SCADA data. To better learn the information between
the time sequence fragments, Yuan et al. [ 48] proposed a wavelet-based fully convolutional
neural network (FCNN), namely Wavelet FCNN. The model framework is illustrated in
Figure 7. The time-frequency domain information of SCADA data was learned by enforcing
an orthogonal discrete wavelet transform. Based on this approach, the detection model
was constructed by using the ensemble learning and CNN, and the global pooling layer
was used instead of the fully connected layer to achieve the deep mining of SCADA time
series samples. To further improve the robustness of this model, an anomaly monitoring
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 10 of 20
algorithm combining the sliding windows and majority voting was designed during the
simulation deployment stage. After the model predicted the real-time data, the multi-
voting mechanism was used to determine whether the current data were abnormal by
considering the wind turbine’s state over a while.
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  11 of 22 
 
 
Figure 7. The architecture of Wavelet FCNN (adapted from [48]).  
Compared with the traditional FCNN model, the accuracy, precision, and F1 score 
were remarkably improved after the wavelet transform method, and the recall was 
slightly decreased. However, there was only a 28.4% (precision) probability that the pre-
dicted iced samples were accurate, which was not enough for applying to the wind tur-
bine blade icing detection. According to the literature [ 49,50], the FCNN architecture does 
not adequately learn the time dependency of the SCADA data. Therefore, Wang et al. [49] 
proposed a wavelet -based multi -scale long LSTM network, namely Wavelet  LSTM, for 
learning the global and local features of multivaria te SCADA data. The LSTM network is 
a kind of neural network that is used to learn sequential data in deep learning. It can detect 
the long -term dependence of SCADA data and avoid the gradient disappearance of the 
RNN. After using the LSTM structure and the  wavelet transform, the accuracy and recall 
rate of the model reached more than 90%, and the accuracy reached 37.6%, which was 
nearly 32% higher than that of Wavelet FCNN. Tian et al. [51] also proposed a parallel 
network architecture composed of LSTM and CNN to improve the model ’s ability to ex-
tract SCADA data in both temporal and spatial dimensions, as can be observed from  Fig-
ure 8.  At the same time, by considering that the time series samples still have the problem 
of sample imbalance, a data enhancement  algorithm was proposed. During the sampling 
process, through the non -overlapping segmentation of the normal data, the overlapping 
segmentation of the icing data increased the number of icing samples to balance the data. 
Figure 7. The architecture of Wavelet FCNN (adapted from [48]).
Compared with the traditional FCNN model, the accuracy, precision, and F1 score
were remarkably improved after the wavelet transform method, and the recall was slightly
decreased. However, there was only a 28.4% (precision) probability that the predicted
iced samples were accurate, which was not enough for applying to the wind turbine
blade icing detection. According to the literature [ 49,50], the FCNN architecture does not
adequately learn the time dependency of the SCADA data. Therefore, Wang et al. [ 49]
proposed a wavelet-based multi-scale long LSTM network, namely Wavelet LSTM, for
learning the global and local features of multivariate SCADA data. The LSTM network
is a kind of neural network that is used to learn sequential data in deep learning. It can
detect the long-term dependence of SCADA data and avoid the gradient disappearance
of the RNN. After using the LSTM structure and the wavelet transform, the accuracy and
recall rate of the model reached more than 90%, and the accuracy reached 37.6%, which
was nearly 32% higher than that of Wavelet FCNN. Tian et al. [ 51] also proposed a parallel
network architecture composed of LSTM and CNN to improve the model’s ability to extract
SCADA data in both temporal and spatial dimensions, as can be observed from Figure 8.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 11 of 20
At the same time, by considering that the time series samples still have the problem of
sample imbalance, a data enhancement algorithm was proposed. During the sampling
process, through the non-overlapping segmentation of the normal data, the overlapping
segmentation of the icing data increased the number of icing samples to balance the data.
The model scored more balanced precision and recall on the test set for individual wind
turbines than Wavelet FCNN, reaching 63% and 61%, respectively.
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  12 of 22 
 
The model scored more balanced prec ision and recall on the test set for individual wind 
turbines than Wavelet FCNN, reaching 63% and 61%, respectively.  
 
Figure 8. The parallel structure of LSTM and CNN (ad apted from [50]).  
By considering the efficiency and complexity of the model operation , Li et al. [51] 
introduced the gated recurrent unit (GRU) to construct the icing detection model. GRU is 
a simplified version of LSTM [52]. Compared with the LSTM  network, this structure is 
simpler and more time -efficient. Moreover, the authors used BiGRU , where the model 
introduced information about future moments in the learning process to better capture 
the temporal dependencies and improve sensitivity to time.  
The wind turbine blade icing is a gradual process that is correlated backward and 
forward in the time dimension, while time -series models may be more suitable for the 
problem. Hence, the application of 1D -CNN, LSTM, and GRU to wind turbine icing de-
tection was examined. Wavelet FCNN performs a wavelet transform on Scada data and 
then uses the detai l coefficients at different scales as the input features, which may not be 
learned by CNNs. CNNs are concerned with the connections between different sensors, 
whereas LSTMs are more of a metric for time steps. Compared to LSTM, GRU is some-
what simpler in s tructure, and BIGRU can introduce information from future moments 
for the model to learn, by capturing the temporal sensitivity better.  
4. Semi -Supervised Learning Method in Blade Icing Detection  
Most of the aforementioned data -driven icing detection appro aches are supervised 
learning and have the disadvantage of being overly dependent on labels. However, the 
accurate labeling of large amounts of data can be very challenging. Under this direction, 
the semi -supervised learning approach is a learning framewor k that addresses this prob-
lem. It allows predictive models to be built by using a small amount of labeled data and a 
large amount of unlabeled  data [53,54]. In this regard, Yi et al. [55] proposed a graph -
based semi -supervised learning system. It first used mutual information to extract fea-
tures from data to eliminate redundant variables. Then, the graph data are constructed 
from processed data and a small amount of labeled data is used to represent the relation-
ship between the samples. Finally, through the iterative operation of the label propagation 
algorithm of the graph, the initial label information is propagated to the data for classifi-
cation. Autoencoder (AE) is also an effective unsupervised learning method to learn the 
potential representations of the input data [56]. Autoencoder have been also introduced 
for icing detection in wind turbines. Yuan et al. [57] proposed a wavelet enhanced 
Figure 8. The parallel structure of LSTM and CNN (adapted from [50]).
By considering the efﬁciency and complexity of the model operation, Li et al. [ 51]
introduced the gated recurrent unit (GRU) to construct the icing detection model. GRU
is a simpliﬁed version of LSTM [ 52]. Compared with the LSTM network, this structure
is simpler and more time-efﬁcient. Moreover, the authors used BiGRU, where the model
introduced information about future moments in the learning process to better capture the
temporal dependencies and improve sensitivity to time.
The wind turbine blade icing is a gradual process that is correlated backward and
forward in the time dimension, while time-series models may be more suitable for the
problem. Hence, the application of 1D-CNN, LSTM, and GRU to wind turbine icing
detection was examined. Wavelet FCNN performs a wavelet transform on Scada data and
then uses the detail coefﬁcients at different scales as the input features, which may not be
learned by CNNs. CNNs are concerned with the connections between different sensors,
whereas LSTMs are more of a metric for time steps. Compared to LSTM, GRU is somewhat
simpler in structure, and BIGRU can introduce information from future moments for the
model to learn, by capturing the temporal sensitivity better.
4. Semi-Supervised Learning Method in Blade Icing Detection
Most of the aforementioned data-driven icing detection approaches are supervised
learning and have the disadvantage of being overly dependent on labels. However, the
accurate labeling of large amounts of data can be very challenging. Under this direction, the
semi-supervised learning approach is a learning framework that addresses this problem. It
allows predictive models to be built by using a small amount of labeled data and a large
amount of unlabeled data [ 53,54]. In this regard, Yi et al. [ 55] proposed a graph-based
semi-supervised learning system. It ﬁrst used mutual information to extract features from
data to eliminate redundant variables. Then, the graph data are constructed from processed
data and a small amount of labeled data is used to represent the relationship between the
samples. Finally, through the iterative operation of the label propagation algorithm of the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 12 of 20
graph, the initial label information is propagated to the data for classiﬁcation. Autoencoder
(AE) is also an effective unsupervised learning method to learn the potential representations
of the input data [56]. Autoencoder have been also introduced for icing detection in wind
turbines. Yuan et al. [ 57] proposed a wavelet enhanced autoencoder model (Wavelet AE),
whose speciﬁc architecture is depicted in Figure 9. The input SCADA data were ﬁrst
decomposed into multi-level wavelet detail coefﬁcients. Then, at each scale layer, the
SCADA data or wavelet detail coefﬁcients were passed through the CNN encoder and the
LSTM encoder, and the hidden states of the LSTM encoder were concatenated to form a
global code. In the decoding stage, the fully concatenated layer ﬁrst mapped the global
code to the initial hidden state at each scale. Then the LSTM decoder and CNN decoder
reconstructed the SCADA data and wavelet detail coefﬁcients as the way to learn the
low-dimensional representation of SCADA data, and then the encoder part was used as
a feature extractor. A SoftMax layer was added as a classiﬁer to supervise the model’s
training using labels. Moreover, the method’s effectiveness was veriﬁed in real datasets,
and the model accuracy and precision metrics reached more than 80%. Additionally, Liu
et al. [ 28] applied deep auto-encoders to learn multilevel fault features from SCADA data
adaptively and used the idea of ensemble learning to construct an integrated icing detection
model by adding classiﬁers after each hidden layer of the network. This method has been
also tested on another wind turbine, on which the model’s accuracy was as high as 96%, and
the MCC coefﬁcient was 0.783, which was better than RF, SVM, shallow neural networks,
and DNN.
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  13 of 22 
 
autoencoder model (Wavelet  AE), whose specific architecture is depicted in Figure 9. The 
input SCADA data were first decomposed into multi -level wavelet detail coefficients. 
Then , at each scale layer, the SCADA data or wavelet detail coefficients were passe d 
through the CNN encoder and the LSTM encoder, and the hidden states of the LSTM 
encoder were concatenated to form a global code. In the decoding stage, the fully concat-
enated layer first mapped the global code to the initial hidden state at each scale. T hen the 
LSTM decoder and CNN decoder reconstructed the SCADA data and wavelet detail co-
efficients as the way to learn the low-dimensional representation of SCADA data, and 
then the encoder part was used as a feature extractor. A SoftMax  layer was added as a 
classifier to supervise the model’s training using labels. Moreover, the method’s effective-
ness was verified in real datasets, and the model accuracy and precision metrics reached 
more than 80%. Additionally, Liu et al. [28] applied deep auto -encoders to  learn multilevel 
fault features from SCADA data adaptively and used the idea of ensemble learning to 
construct an integrated icing detection model by adding classifiers after each hidden layer 
of the network. This method has been also tested on another wi nd turbine, on which the  
model’s accuracy was as high as 96%, and the MCC coefficient was 0.783, which was better 
than RF, SVM, shallow neural networks, and DNN.  
 
Figure 9. The architecture of Wavelet AE (ad apted from [57]).  
Similarly, Yi et al. [58] prop osed a wind turbine icing fault detection method based 
on discriminative feature learning. The stacked autoencoder (SAE) model trained by the 
normal data was used to extract deep features of the sample (i.e., the original data, the 
features extracted by SA E, and the error vector), and then the extracted deep features were 
mapped to the low -dimensional space by sparse linear discriminant analysis for classifier 
training. The better classification was attained when considering the time series relation-
ships. C heng et al. [59] proposed a new depth class imbalance semi -supervised model for 
icing detection. The specific principle is depicted in Figure 10. The method first projected 
the imbalanced dataset with only partially labeled data into the feature space with  the 
feature encoder and then utilized the prototype network to calculate the prototypes of 
each category (i.e., icing or non -icing) from labeled data. Finally, it updated the labeled 
data prototype by comparing the distance between the unlabeled data prot otype (un-
known class) and the labeled data prototype (known class). This method used only unla-
beled data for training the optimization model. In the testing phase, each test sample was 
mapped to the feature space by the feature encoder and then classified by the trained 
classifier.  
Figure 9. The architecture of Wavelet AE (adapted from [57]).
Similarly, Yi et al. [ 58] proposed a wind turbine icing fault detection method based
on discriminative feature learning. The stacked autoencoder (SAE) model trained by the
normal data was used to extract deep features of the sample (i.e., the original data, the
features extracted by SAE, and the error vector), and then the extracted deep features
were mapped to the low-dimensional space by sparse linear discriminant analysis for
classiﬁer training. The better classiﬁcation was attained when considering the time series
relationships. Cheng et al. [ 59] proposed a new depth class imbalance semi-supervised
model for icing detection. The speciﬁc principle is depicted in Figure 10. The method ﬁrst
projected the imbalanced dataset with only partially labeled data into the feature space with
the feature encoder and then utilized the prototype network to calculate the prototypes
of each category (i.e., icing or non-icing) from labeled data. Finally, it updated the labeled
data prototype by comparing the distance between the unlabeled data prototype (unknown
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 13 of 20
class) and the labeled data prototype (known class). This method used only unlabeled data
for training the optimization model. In the testing phase, each test sample was mapped to
the feature space by the feature encoder and then classiﬁed by the trained classiﬁer.
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  14 of 22 
 
 
Figure 10. Imbalanced semi -supervised model (ad apted from [59]).  
Supervised learning requires high -quality labeled data, whereas in the industry there 
is a large amount of unlabeled data and a severe shortage of high -quality la beled data. As 
a result, in this section, the application of semi -supervision was reviewed for leaf icing 
detection. While for graph neural networks it is worth considering when constructing 
graph data, for AE the implementation of AE unsupervised learning  to SCADA low -di-
mensional representations for distinguishing normal from icing data should be consid-
ered.  
5. Transfer Learning Method in Blade Icing Detection  
In some cases, obtaining a large amount of training data for the target domain is dif-
ficult and expensive. Therefore, it is of great significance to learn from the relevant source 
domain to transfer knowledge to the target domain and build a high -performan ce model 
for the target domain, which is the motivation for transfer learning [60]. For wind turbines, 
different geographical locations and environments lead to specific differences in the op-
eration data of wind turbines. The model based on a single wind t urbine has the problem 
of insufficient generalization ability when it is directly applied to other wind turbines. 
Meanwhile, the retraining model for the target wind turbine has the problem of inade-
quate data and label quality. Therefore, Zhang et al. [61]  proposed a CNN detection frame-
work based on the inductive transfer learning (ITL) method. As shown in Figure 11, the 
author used many source domain data to train FNN to construct a high -performance icing 
detection model for wind turbine B. Based on the ic ing detection model of wind turbine 
B, the author used a small amount of SCADA data (target domain data) of wind turbine 
A to quickly update the model to construct the icing detection model of wind turbine A. 
The authors also compared it with the direct ap plication of FNN. Interestingly, the induc-
tive transfer learning based FNN can detect about 79% of the ice data, which is 14% more 
accurate than the direct application of FNN.  
 
Figure 10. Imbalanced semi-supervised model (adapted from [59]).
Supervised learning requires high-quality labeled data, whereas in the industry there
is a large amount of unlabeled data and a severe shortage of high-quality labeled data. As
a result, in this section, the application of semi-supervision was reviewed for leaf icing
detection. While for graph neural networks it is worth considering when constructing graph
data, for AE the implementation of AE unsupervised learning to SCADA low-dimensional
representations for distinguishing normal from icing data should be considered.
5. Transfer Learning Method in Blade Icing Detection
In some cases, obtaining a large amount of training data for the target domain is
difﬁcult and expensive. Therefore, it is of great signiﬁcance to learn from the relevant
source domain to transfer knowledge to the target domain and build a high-performance
model for the target domain, which is the motivation for transfer learning [ 60]. For wind
turbines, different geographical locations and environments lead to speciﬁc differences
in the operation data of wind turbines. The model based on a single wind turbine has
the problem of insufﬁcient generalization ability when it is directly applied to other wind
turbines. Meanwhile, the retraining model for the target wind turbine has the problem of
inadequate data and label quality. Therefore, Zhang et al. [ 61] proposed a CNN detection
framework based on the inductive transfer learning (ITL) method. As shown in Figure 11,
the author used many source domain data to train FNN to construct a high-performance
icing detection model for wind turbine B. Based on the icing detection model of wind
turbine B, the author used a small amount of SCADA data (target domain data) of wind
turbine A to quickly update the model to construct the icing detection model of wind
turbine A. The authors also compared it with the direct application of FNN. Interestingly,
the inductive transfer learning based FNN can detect about 79% of the ice data, which is
14% more accurate than the direct application of FNN.
Yun et al. [ 62] proposed an adaptive inductive transfer learning (adaptive ITL) method
for detecting wind turbines. The underlying principle is displayed in Figure 12. First, the
source domain data was used to train the base classiﬁer and to predict the target domain
data. Then, based on the prediction results, the predicted icing and non-icing data were
used to train the precision auxiliary classiﬁer and recall auxiliary classiﬁer, respectively.
The basic classiﬁer ﬁrst classiﬁed each test sample in the testing phase. Then, the samples
were fed into the auxiliary classiﬁer based on the prediction results, and the output of the
auxiliary classiﬁer was used as the ﬁnal prediction result. The author used RF, AdaBoost,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 14 of 20
FNN, and other classiﬁers, to verify that the classiﬁer’s performance was improved with
adaptive ITL.
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  14 of 22 
 
 
Figure 10. Imbalanced semi -supervised model (ad apted from [59]).  
Supervised learning requires high -quality labeled data, whereas in the industry there 
is a large amount of unlabeled data and a severe shortage of high -quality la beled data. As 
a result, in this section, the application of semi -supervision was reviewed for leaf icing 
detection. While for graph neural networks it is worth considering when constructing 
graph data, for AE the implementation of AE unsupervised learning  to SCADA low -di-
mensional representations for distinguishing normal from icing data should be consid-
ered.  
5. Transfer Learning Method in Blade Icing Detection  
In some cases, obtaining a large amount of training data for the target domain is dif-
ficult and expensive. Therefore, it is of great significance to learn from the relevant source 
domain to transfer knowledge to the target domain and build a high -performan ce model 
for the target domain, which is the motivation for transfer learning [60]. For wind turbines, 
different geographical locations and environments lead to specific differences in the op-
eration data of wind turbines. The model based on a single wind t urbine has the problem 
of insufficient generalization ability when it is directly applied to other wind turbines. 
Meanwhile, the retraining model for the target wind turbine has the problem of inade-
quate data and label quality. Therefore, Zhang et al. [61]  proposed a CNN detection frame-
work based on the inductive transfer learning (ITL) method. As shown in Figure 11, the 
author used many source domain data to train FNN to construct a high -performance icing 
detection model for wind turbine B. Based on the ic ing detection model of wind turbine 
B, the author used a small amount of SCADA data (target domain data) of wind turbine 
A to quickly update the model to construct the icing detection model of wind turbine A. 
The authors also compared it with the direct ap plication of FNN. Interestingly, the induc-
tive transfer learning based FNN can detect about 79% of the ice data, which is 14% more 
accurate than the direct application of FNN.  
 
Figure 11. The framework of the inductive transfer learning based FNN (adapted from [61]).
Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  15 of 22 
 
Figure 11. The framework of the  inductive transfer learning based FNN (ad apted  from [61]).  
Yun et al. [62] proposed an adaptive inductive transfer learning (adaptive ITL) 
method for detecting wind turbines. The underlying principle is displayed in Figure 12. 
First, the source domain data was used to train the base classifier and to predict the target 
domain data. Then, based on the prediction results, the predicted icing and non -icing data 
were used to train the precision auxiliary classifier and recall auxiliary classifier, respec-
tively. The basic classifier first classified each te st sample in the testing phase. Then , the 
samples were fed into the auxiliary classifier based on the prediction results, and the out-
put of the auxiliary classifier was used as the final prediction result. The author used RF, 
AdaBoost, FNN, and other class ifiers, to verify that the classifier ’s performance was im-
proved with adaptive ITL.  
 
 
Figure 12. Adaptive inductive transfer learning (adaptive ITL) method (ad apted from [62]).  
Similarly, Chen et al. [63] applied the TrAdaBoost  algorithm, which is another trans-
fer learning algorithm, for constructing classifiers on a small amount of data in the target 
field to detect wind turbines. The authors claimed that the generalization ability of the 
TrAdaBoost algorithm in other wind turb ines was better than that of the traditional ma-
chine learning KNN and random forest algorithms. The principle was to iteratively up-
date their weights based on the contribution of each sample to the classification in the 
source and target domain dataset. Th e weight updating strategy for the target domain 
samples was the same as AdaBoost but the weights of sample models in the source do-
main were updated by using different techniques [64]. Liu et al. [65] applied the idea of 
domain adaptation in transfer learn ing to the icing detection of wind turbine blades and 
Figure 12. Adaptive inductive transfer learning (adaptive ITL) method (adapted from [62]).
Similarly, Chen et al. [ 63] applied the TrAdaBoost algorithm, which is another transfer
learning algorithm, for constructing classiﬁers on a small amount of data in the target
ﬁeld to detect wind turbines. The authors claimed that the generalization ability of the
TrAdaBoost algorithm in other wind turbines was better than that of the traditional machine
learning KNN and random forest algorithms. The principle was to iteratively update their
weights based on the contribution of each sample to the classiﬁcation in the source and
target domain dataset. The weight updating strategy for the target domain samples was
the same as AdaBoost but the weights of sample models in the source domain were
updated by using different techniques [ 64]. Liu et al. [ 65] applied the idea of domain
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 15 of 20
adaptation in transfer learning to the icing detection of wind turbine blades and used
the temporal convolutional network to construct the model, namely domain adaptation
temporal convolutional network (DATCN). Domain adaptation alternately trained feature
extractors and domain discriminators to spontaneously learn a Nash equilibrium state
through the idea of confrontation, completed the transfer learning from the source domain
wind turbine to the target domain wind turbine, and reduced the inﬂuence of the different
wind turbines due to different geographical locations, environmental factors, and operating
conditions. Compared with the TCN model without migration, the DATCN model was
more adaptive.
ITL and adaptive ITL are essentially a way to achieve high performance in a target
task by transferring knowledge from the source task to the target task. TrAdaBoost is an
Instance-based TL, where a small amount of newly labeled data combined with weighted
old data are used to construct a high-quality classiﬁcation model for the new data. Domain
adaptation is a more tightly constrained form of TL, which aims to use the well-labeled
data in the source domain to learn an accurate model that can be applied to a target domain
with no or little labeling. By considering the time cost of collecting data from multiple wind
turbines and the quality of the labels, it is still helpful to use transfer learning to achieve a
multi-wind turbine diagnostic model.
6. Research Gaps and Challenges
There are several essential issues to be considered about the application of data-driven
approaches in icing detection of wind turbines in the future:
The vast majority of the current models are ofﬂine predictions under conditions using
test sets to simulate the online monitoring phase and are not applied in reality. In the
future, it should be considered to deploy the model to wind turbines for online learning
and to continuously learn and update based on the new data generated by wind turbine
operation.
In terms of the feature redundancy and feature selection for SCADA data, although
some of the features in the SCADA data have a low level of contribution to icing prediction,
there is a high risk that some helpful information will be lost by artiﬁcially removing some
features and that the features will not be the same depending on the ﬁltering algorithm.
Since humans do not know what the model needs, the model can be allowed to learn on
its own. When building the model, the attention mechanism is embedded in the deep
neural network. Through performing continuous iterative updates, the model learns to give
more weight to the robust features and less weight to the weak features [ 66]. For example,
Cheng et al. [ 67] proposed a temporal attention-based convolutional neural network, which
introduced the temporal attention module into the convolutional neural network to learn
the importance of sensors and time steps. Thus, discriminative features in the raw data can
be automatically identiﬁed. Of course, the location of the attention mechanism embedding
is also a question worth exploring.
The development of data-driven approaches based on a large amount of data is also
required, especially to build models with sufﬁcient generalization capabilities, implying
that different wind farm data need to be accessed. The SCADA data contain vast infor-
mation and also involve the issues of commercial conﬁdentiality of wind farms, resulting
in the sharing of data in the wind turbine domain not being well developed. In response,
Cheng et al. [ 68] proposed a federation learning (FL) based blade icing detection model and
also validated the model’s reliability on the data from two wind farms. As a distributed
machine learning paradigm, FL does not require network transmission of large amounts
of data, such as centralized learning, and there is a threat of data leakage. FL enables
participants to model jointly without sharing data, break data isolated islands technically,
and achieve AI collaboration [ 69,70]. The issue of surpassing the existing bottlenecks and
effectively protecting the privacy and ownership of wind turbine data is an important
research direction in the future.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 16 of 20
Artiﬁcial intelligence algorithms are generally regarded as “black boxes”, which
can make decisions alone. However, their poor interpretability is not well-understood.
Studying the blade surface icing mechanism from the mechanism level and combining the
blade icing mechanism model with the data-driven approaches to predict the manifestation
of an icing event in advance, prevent icing, and even eliminate icing, has high research
values.
To achieve the localization of blade icing, Hacıefendio˘ glu et al. [ 6,71] used pre-trained
models of classical convolutional neural networks from deep learning for the accurate
detection of blade icing by using image data and investigated the various visualization
techniques for locating the location of blade icing. The study demonstrated that Gradient-
weighted Class Activation Mapping for Resnet-50 outperformed the other combinations.
In order to clearly show the icing boundary, the image semantic segmentation network
U-NET was applied to detect wind turbine blades. SCADA data detected the status of wind
turbines from a global perspective, while the image data intuitively determined whether
the blades are iced from a local perspective. In the future, deep learning can be used to fuse
information from multiple sources to improve the accuracy of wind turbine fault detection
and to locate blade icing.
7. Conclusions
The fault detection of wind turbine blade icing is of great importance for wind farms to
improve the power generation efﬁciency and the operational life of wind turbines. With the
widespread use of wind turbine SCADA systems and the rapid development of artiﬁcial
intelligence algorithms, data-driven approaches show great potential in the fault diagnosis
of wind turbine blade icing.
In this work, the application of data-driven approaches to wind turbine blade icing
detection was reviewed and the problem of feature selection and category imbalance
in classiﬁcation tasks with data-driven approaches was analyzed. In this regard, three
approaches to feature selection were summarized including mechanism-based, algorithm-
based, and mechanism+algorithm-based. The previously reported works in the literature
on data and algorithms that are used to deal with the category imbalance problem were
also reviewed. It should be also noted that SCADA data are essentially time series data,
which should be considered when icing detection models are developed. The success
of a wind turbine blade diagnostic model requires a relatively large number of labeled
samples, which is difﬁcult to be satisﬁed in real applications. As a result, to bridge this gap,
semi-supervised learning has been introduced for icing fault diagnosis of wind turbines.
Due to the different geographical locations and environmental factors of the different
wind turbines, which lead to poor generalization of the model to other wind turbines, in
response, knowledge learned from one wind turbine was transferred to another, and TL
was introduced to the task of wind turbine icing fault diagnosis. Finally, the challenges of
data-driven approaches based on data were discussed, and an outlook for future research
was provided.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, X.S. and Q.L.; writing of the manuscript, J.G. and X.S.;
updating of the text, X.S. and C.C.; literature searches, Y.Z., Y.J. and Z.X.; critical reviewing of the
manuscript, J.W., S.T. and C.C.; organization and editing of the manuscript, J.G., X.S. and Y.Z.; project
administration: C.C.; supervision: Q.L. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of
the manuscript.
Funding: This Research was funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant
No. 52176212) and the National Engineering Research Center for Offshore Windpower (Grant No.
HSFD22001). The research was also supported by the Doctor Foundation of the Inner Mongolia
University of Technology (BS2021031), We are also very grateful to the Program for Innovative
Research Team in Universities of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (NMGIRT2213) and Inner
Mongolia Science and Technology Program under Grant (2021GG0336).
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 17 of 20
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Abbreviations
SCADA supervisory control and data acquisition
XGBoost extreme gradient Boosting
SPRT sequential probability ratio test
AdaBoost adaptive boosting
DBN deep belief network
PCA principal component analysis
BP back propagation
SFA slow feature analysis
SVM support vector machine
MIV mean impact value
tSNE t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding
RNN Recurrent Neural Networks
CNN convolutional neural network
RF random forest
LSTM long short-term memory
SMOTE synthetic minority over-sampling technique
MBK-SMOTE mini-batch k-means smote
SC-SMOTE safe circle smote
KNN k-nearest neighbor
DNN deep neural networks
AWKELM adaptive weighted kernel extreme learning machine
TCN temporal convolutional network
FCNN fully convolutional neural network
GRU gated recurrent unit
AE autoencoder
SAE stacked autoencoder
ITL inductive transfer learning
DATCN domain adaptation temporal convolutional network
FL federation learning
References
1. USEIA. Available online: https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/ieo (accessed on 3 March 2022).
2. Council, G.W.E. Global Wind Report 2022. Available online: https://gwec.net/global-wind-report-2022/ (accessed on 4
April 2022).
3. Parent, O.; Ilinca, A. Anti-icing and de-icing techniques for wind turbines: Critical review. Cold Reg. Sci. Technol. 2011 ,65, 88–96.
[CrossRef]
4. Fortin, G.; Perron, J.; Ilinca, A. Behaviour and Modeling of Cup Anemometers under Icing Conditions. In IWAIS XI ; Montreal,
QC, Canada, June 2005. Available online: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/259758149_Behaviour_and_Modeling_of_
Cup_Anemometers_under_Icing_Conditions (accessed on 5 January 2023).
5. Laakso, T.; Holttinen, H.; Ronsten, G.; Tallhaug, L.; Horbaty, R.; Baring-Gould, I.; Lacroix, A.; Peltola, E.; Tammelin, B. State-of-
the-art of wind energy in cold climates. IEA Annex XIX 2003 ,24, 53.
6. Hacıefendio˘ glu, K.; Ba¸ sa˘ ga, H.B.; Yavuz, Z.; Karimi, M.T. Intelligent ice detection on wind turbine blades using semantic
segmentation and class activation map approaches based on deep learning method. Renew. Energy 2022 ,182, 1–16. [CrossRef]
7. Ronsten, G.; Wallenius, T.; Hulkkonen, M.; Baring-Gould, I.; Cattin, R.; Durstewitz, M.; Krenn, A.; Laakso, T.; Lacroix, A.; Tallhaug,
L. State-of-the-art of Wind Energy in Cold Climates. IEA Wind Task . 2012. Available online: https://www.tuulivoimayhdistys.ﬁ/
media/task19_sota_weincc_2012_approved.pdf (accessed on 5 January 2023).
8. Pérez, J.M.P .; M árquez, F.P .G.; Hern ández, D.R. Economic viability analysis for icing blades detection in wind turbines. J. Clean.
Prod. 2016 ,135, 1150–1160. [CrossRef]
9. Lehtomäki, V .; Rissanen, S.; Wadham-Gagnon, M.; Sandel, K.; Moser, W.; Jacob, D. Fatigue loads of iced turbines: Two case
studies. J. Wind. Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2016 ,158, 37–50. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 18 of 20
10. Shu, L.; Qiu, G.; Hu, Q.; Jiang, X.; Wang, P .; Xia, H. Numerical Model and Field Experimental Investigation of Threshold Heat
Flux of Wind Turbine De-icing. Proc. CSEE 2018 ,38, 3997–4003. [CrossRef]
11. Fikke, S.M.; Ronsten, G.; Heimo, A.; Kunz, S.; Ostrozlik, M.; Persson, P .; Sabata, J.; Wareing, B.; Wichura, B.; Chum, J. COST
727: Atmospheric Icing on Structures: Measurements and Data Collection on Icing: State of the Art ; Meteo Schweiz: Geneva, Switzer-
land, 2006.
12. Laakso, T.I.; Peltola, E.; Tammelin, B. Wind Turbines in Icing Environment: Improvement of Tools for Siting, Certiﬁcation and Operation:
New Icetools ; Ilmatieteen laitos: Helsinki, Finland, 2005; p. 127, ISBN 951-697-618-2.
13. Ge, Y.; Yue, D.; Chen, L. Prediction of wind turbine blades icing based on MBK-SMOTE and random forest in imbalanced data
set. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE Conference on Energy Internet and Energy System Integration (EI2), Beijing, China, 26–28
November 2017; pp. 1–6.
14. Tao, T.; Liu, Y.; Qiao, Y.; Gao, L.; Lu, J.; Zhang, C.; Wang, Y. Wind turbine blade icing diagnosis using hybrid features and
Stacked-XGBoost algorithm. Renew. Energy 2021 ,180, 1004–1013. [CrossRef]
15. Berbyuk, V .; Peterson, B.; Möller, J. Towards early ice detection on wind turbine blades using acoustic waves. In Proceedings
of the Nondestructive Characterization for Composite Materials, Aerospace Engineering, Civil Infrastructure, and Homeland
Security 2014, San Diego, CA, USA, 10 March 2014; pp. 96–106.
16. Muñoz, C.Q.G.; M árquez, F.P .G.; Tom ás, J.M.S. Ice detection using thermal infrared radiometry on wind turbine blades. Measure-
ment 2016 ,93, 157–163. [CrossRef]
17. Kim, D.-g.; Sampath, U.; Kim, H.; Song, M. A ﬁber-optic ice detection system for large-scale wind turbine blades. In Proceedings
of the Optical Modeling and Performance Predictions IX, San Diego, CA, USA, 7–8 August 2017; pp. 52–57.
18. Maldonado-Correa, J.; Mart ín-Mart ínez, S.; Artigao, E.; G ómez-L ázaro, E. Using SCADA data for wind turbine condition
monitoring: A systematic literature review. Energies 2020 ,13, 3132. [CrossRef]
19. Zhou, D.; Hu, Y. Fault Diagnosis Techniques for Dynamic Systems. Acta Autom. Sin. 2009 ,35, 748–758. [CrossRef]
20. Guo, P .; Inﬁeld, D. Wind turbine blade icing detection with multi-model collaborative monitoring method. Renew. Energy 2021 ,
179, 1098–1105. [CrossRef]
21. Fan, D.; Liu, B.; Guo, P . Wind turbine blades icing detection with multi-parameter models based on AdaBoost algorithm. Huadian
Technol. 2021 ,43, 20–26. [CrossRef]
22. Li, N.; Yan, T.; Li, N.; Kong, D.; Liu, Q.; Lei, Y. Ice Detection Method by Using SCADA Data on Wind Turbine Blades. Power Gener.
Technol. 2018 ,39, 58–62. [CrossRef]
23. Zhou, G.; Tan, W.; Zhang, D. Ice detection for wind turbine blades based on PSO-SVM method. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2018 ,
1087 , 022036.
24. Zhang, L.; Liu, K.; Wang, Y.; Omariba, Z.B. Ice detection model of wind turbine blades based on random forest classiﬁer. Energies
2018 ,11, 2548. [CrossRef]
25. Ma, J.; Ma, L.; Tian, X. Wind Turbine Blade Icing Prediction Based on Deep Belief Network. In Proceedings of the 2019 4th
International Conference on Mechanical, Control and Computer Engineering (ICMCCE), Hohhot, China, 24–26 October 2019;
pp. 26–263.
26. Liu, Y.; Cheng, H.; Kong, X.; Wang, Q.; Cui, H. Intelligent wind turbine blade icing detection using supervisory control and data
acquisition data and ensemble deep learning. Energy Sci. Eng. 2019 ,7, 2633–2645. [CrossRef]
27. Ye, C.; Qiu, Y.; Feng, Y. Faults Diagnosis of Wind Turbine Blade Icing based on Data Mining. Noise Vib. Control. 2018 ,28, 643–647.
[CrossRef]
28. Peng, C.; Tang, Z.; Chen, Q.; Wang, S.; Zhou, X.; Chi, H. Short-Term Prediction of Generator Blade Ice Fault Based on Multi-AN.
In Proceedings of the 2019 Seventh International Conference on Advanced Cloud and Big Data (CBD), Suzhou, China, 21–22
September 2019; pp. 291–296.
29. Li, T.; Tan, W.; Liu, Z. A Hybrid Model Based on Logistic Regression Algorithm and Extraction Algorithm Using Reward
Extremum to Real-Time Detect Blade Icing Alarm. Int. J. Pattern Recognit. Artif. Intell. 2019 ,33, 1955016. [CrossRef]
30. Jia, P .; Chen, G. Wind Power Icing Fault Diagnosis Based on Slow Feature Analysis and Support Vector Machines. In Proceedings
of the 2020 10th International Conference on Power and Energy Systems (ICPES), Chengdu, China, 25–27 December 2020;
pp. 398–403.
31. Zhang, Z.; Fan, B.; Liu, Y.; Zhang, P .; Wang, J.; Du, W. Rapid warning of wind turbine blade icing based on MIV-tSNE-RNN. J.
Mech. Sci. Technol. 2021 ,35, 5453–5459. [CrossRef]
32. Chen, X.; Lei, D.; Xu, G. Prediction of icing fault of wind turbine blades based on deep learning. In Proceedings of the 2019
IEEE 2nd International Conference on Automation, Electronics and Electrical Engineering (AUTEEE), Shenyang, China, 22–24
November 2019; pp. 295–299.
33. Di, R.; Chen, Z.; Lv, J. Application of XGBoost based on SMOTE in prediction of wind turbine blades icing. Inf. Technol. 2019 ,43,
81–85. [CrossRef]
34. Meng, H.; Huang, X.; Liu, J.; Han, Z. Forecast of fan blade icing combing with random forest and SVM. Electr. Meas. Instrum.
2020 ,57, 66–71. [CrossRef]
35. Hai, T.; Fan, H.; Wang, K.; Liu, Z.; Chen, Y. Icing Fault Diagnosis of Wind Turbines Based on PSO-SVM Algorithm. Smart Power
2021 ,49, 1–6+74.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 19 of 20
36. Nie, F.; Li, Q.; Huang, Q.; Huang, L. Wing icing detection based on dimension fusion and SSA-LSTM. Transducer Microsyst.
Technol. 2022 ,41, 118–121. [CrossRef]
37. Tang, Z.; Xiao, Y.; Li, Y. Wind turbine blade icing diagnosis method based on deep learning. Mod. Electron. Tech. 2022 ,45, 77–82.
[CrossRef]
38. Madasamy, K.; Ramaswami, M. Data imbalance and classiﬁers: Impact and solutions from a big data perspective. International J.
Comput. Intell. Res. 2017 ,13, 2267–2281.
39. Xu, J.; Tan, W.; Li, T. Predicting fan blade icing by using particle swarm optimization and support vector machine algorithm.
Comput. Electr. Eng. 2020 ,87, 106751. [CrossRef]
40. Peng, C.; Chen, Q.; Zhang, L.; Wan, L.; Yuan, X. Research on fault diagnosis of wind power generator blade based on SC-SMOTE
and kNN. J. Inf. Process. Syst. 2020 ,16, 870–881.
41. Jiang, N.; Yan, M.; Li, N. Icing detection of wind turbine blade based on the time-dimensional upsampling convolutional neural
network. Control. Decis. 2022 ,37, 2017–2025. [CrossRef]
42. Chen, L.; Xu, G.; Zhang, Q.; Zhang, X. Learning deep representation of imbalanced SCADA data for fault detection of wind
turbines. Measurement 2019 ,139, 370–379. [CrossRef]
43. Peng, D.; Liu, C.; Desmet, W.; Gryllias, K. An improved 2DCNN with focal loss function for blade icing detection of wind turbines
under imbalanced SCADA data. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Offshore Mechanics and Arctic Engineering,
Virtual, Online, 16–17 February 2021; American Society of Mechanical Engineers: Canc ún, Mexico, 2021; p. V001T01A018.
44. Tong, R.; Li, P .; Lang, X.; Liang, J.; Cao, M. A novel adaptive weighted kernel extreme learning machine algorithm and its
application in wind turbine blade icing fault detection. Measurement 2021 ,185, 110009. [CrossRef]
45. Ding, S.; Wang, Z.; Zhang, J.; Han, F.; Gu, X.; Song, G. A PCC-Ensemble-TCN model for wind turbine icing detection using
class-imbalanced and label-missing SCADA data. Int. J. Distrib. Sens. Netw. 2021 ,17, 15501477211057737. [CrossRef]
46. Wang, J.; Tang, Z.; Lu, P . Ice detection and voice alarm of wind turbine blades based on belief network. Int. J. Speech Technol. 2021 ,
1–10. [CrossRef]
47. Li, M.; He, X. An accurate detection method for turbine icing issues using LSTM network. In Proceedings of the IOP Conference
Series: Earth and Environmental Science, Moscow, Russia, 27 May–6 June 2019; p. 032109.
48. Yuan, B.; Wang, C.; Jiang, F.; Long, M.; Yu, P .S.; Liu, Y. WaveletFCNN: A Deep Time Series Classiﬁcation Model for Wind Turbine
Blade Icing Detection. arXiv 2019 . [CrossRef]
49. Wang, X.; Zheng, Z.; Jiang, G.; He, Q.; Xie, P . Detecting Wind Turbine Blade Icing with a Multiscale Long Short-Term Memory
Network. Energies 2022 ,15, 2864. [CrossRef]
50. Tian, W.; Cheng, X.; Li, G.; Shi, F.; Chen, S.; Zhang, H. A multilevel convolutional recurrent neural network for blade icing
detection of wind turbine. IEEE Sens. J. 2021 ,21, 20311–20323. [CrossRef]
51. Li, Y.; Hou, L.; Tang, M.; Sun, Q.; Chen, J.; Song, W.; Yao, W.; Cao, L. Prediction of wind turbine blades icing based on feature
Selection and 1D-CNN-SBiGRU. Multimed. Tools Appl. 2022 ,81, 4365–4385. [CrossRef]
52. Greff, K.; Srivastava, R.K.; Koutn ík, J.; Steunebrink, B.R.; Schmidhuber, J. LSTM: A search space odyssey. IEEE Trans. Neural Netw.
Learn. Syst. 2016 ,28, 2222–2232. [CrossRef]
53. Blum, A.; Mitchell, T. Combining labeled and unlabeled data with co-training. In Proceedings of the Eleventh Annual Conference
on Computational Learning Theory, Madison, WI, USA, 24–26 July 1998; pp. 92–100.
54. Zhu, X.J. Semi-Supervised Learning Literature Survey. 2005. Available online: http://digital.library.wisc.edu/1793/60444
(accessed on 3 June 2022).
55. Yi, H.; Jiang, Q. Graph-based semisupervised learning for icing fault detection of wind turbine blade. Meas. Sci. Technol. 2020 ,32,
035117. [CrossRef]
56. Ng, A. Sparse autoencoder. CS294A Lect. Notes 2011 ,72, 1–19.
57. Yuan, B.; Wang, C.; Luo, C.; Jiang, F.; Long, M.; Yu, P .S.; Liu, Y. WaveletAE: A wavelet-enhanced autoencoder for wind turbine
blade icing detection. arXiv 2019 ,preprint . arXiv:1902.05625.
58. Yi, H.; Jiang, Q. Discriminative feature learning for blade icing fault detection of wind turbine. Meas. Sci. Technol. 2020 ,31, 115102.
[CrossRef]
59. Cheng, X.; Shi, F.; Liu, X.; Zhao, M.; Chen, S. A novel deep class-imbalanced semisupervised model for wind turbine blade icing
detection. IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst. 2022 ,33, 2558–2570. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
60. Weiss, K.; Khoshgoftaar, T.M.; Wang, D. A survey of transfer learning. J. Big Data 2016 ,3, 9. [CrossRef]
61. Zhang, C.; Bin, J.; Liu, Z. Wind turbine ice assessment through inductive transfer learning. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, I2MTC 2018, Houston, TX, USA, 14–17 May 2018; pp. 1–6.
62. Yun, H.; Zhang, C.; Hou, C.; Liu, Z. An adaptive approach for ice detection in wind turbine with inductive transfer learning.
IEEE Access 2019 ,7, 122205–122213. [CrossRef]
63. Chen, W.; Qiu, Y.; Feng, Y.; Li, Y.; Kusiak, A. Diagnosis of wind turbine faults with transfer learning algorithms. Renew. Energy
2021 ,163, 2053–2067. [CrossRef]
64. Dai, W.Y.; Yang, Q.X. Boosting for transfer learning. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Fourth International Conference (ICML 2007),
Corvallis, OR, USA, 20–24 June 2007; Volume 193, p. 200.
65. Liu, X. Diagnosis of Wind Turbine Blade Icing Based on SCADA Data. Master’s Thesis, Kunming University of Science and
Technology, Kunming, China, September 2021.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 1617 20 of 20
66. Guo, M.-H.; Xu, T.-X.; Liu, J.-J.; Liu, Z.-N.; Jiang, P .-T.; Mu, T.-J.; Zhang, S.-H.; Martin, R.R.; Cheng, M.-M.; Hu, S.-M. Attention
mechanisms in computer vision: A survey. Comput. Vis. Media 2022 ,14, 1–38. [CrossRef]
67. Cheng, X.; Shi, F.; Zhao, M.; Li, G.; Zhang, H.; Chen, S. Temporal attention convolutional neural network for estimation of icing
probability on wind turbine blades. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2021 ,69, 6371–6380. [CrossRef]
68. Cheng, X.; Shi, F.; Liu, Y.; Liu, X.; Huang, L. Wind turbine blade icing detection: A federated learning approach. Energy 2022 ,254,
124441. [CrossRef]
69. Zhang, C.; Xie, Y.; Bai, H.; Yu, B.; Li, W.; Gao, Y. A survey on federated learning. Knowl.-Based Syst. 2021 ,216, 106775. [CrossRef]
70. AbdulRahman, S.; Tout, H.; Ould-Slimane, H.; Mourad, A.; Talhi, C.; Guizani, M. A survey on federated learning: The journey
from centralized to distributed on-site learning and beyond. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020 ,8, 5476–5497. [CrossRef]
71. Hacıefendio˘ glu, K.; Ba¸ sa˘ ga, H.B.; Ayas, S.; Karimi, M. Automatic detection of icing wind turbine using deep learning method.
Wind. Struct. 2022 ,34, 511–523. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
