Citation: Masita, K.; Hasan, A.;
Shongwe, T. Defects Detection on
110 MW AC Wind Farm’s Turbine
Generator Blades Using Drone-Based
Laser and RGB Images with
Res-CNN3 Detector. Appl. Sci. 2023 ,
13, 13046. https://doi.org/10.3390/
app132413046
Academic Editor: Yang Lu
Received: 11 October 2023
Revised: 14 November 2023
Accepted: 29 November 2023
Published: 7 December 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
applied  
sciences 
Article
Defects Detection on 110 MW AC Wind Farm’s T urbine
Generator Blades Using Drone-Based Laser and RGB Images
with Res-CNN3 Detector
Katleho Masita *, Ali Hasan
 and Thokozani Shongwe
Electrical and Electronic Engineering Science Department, University of Johannesburg,
Johannesburg 2006, South Africa; ahasan1@hct.ac.ae (A.H.); tshongwe@uj.ac.za (T.S.)
*Correspondence: 201301860@student.uj.ac.za
Featured Application: This work has applications in the advancement of deep learning-based
object detection using drones and the improvement of operations and maintenance strategies for
wind energy farms.
Abstract: An effective way to perform maintenance on the wind turbine generator (WTG) blades
installed in grid-connected wind farms is to inspect them using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV).
The ability to detect wind turbine blade defects from these laser and RGB images captured by drones
has been the subject of numerous studies. The issue that most applied techniques battle with is being
able to locate different wind turbine blade defects with high conﬁdence scores and precision. The
accuracy of these models’ defect detection decreases due to varying testing image scales. This article
proposes the Res-CNN3 technique for detecting wind turbine blade defects. In Res-CNN3, defect
region detection is achieved through a bipartite process that processes the laser delta and RGB delta
structure of a wind turbine blade image with an integration of residual networks and concatenated
CNNs to determine the presence of typical defect regions in the image. The loss function is logistic
regression, and a Selective Search (SS) algorithm is used to predict the regions of interest (RoI) of the
input images for defects detection. Several experiments are conducted, and the outcomes prove that
the proposed model has a high prospect for accuracy in solving the problem of defect detection in a
manner similar to the advanced benchmark methods.
Keywords: deep learning; defects; wind turbine generator blades; Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)
1. Introduction
Wind energy is gaining popularity as an environmentally friendly and sustainable
substitute for the use of fossil fuels. As a result, wind farm construction has increased
dramatically in recent years all over the world. Yet, maintaining these offshore or onshore
wind turbines, particularly in distant places, remains a difﬁcult undertaking. Wind turbine
inspections traditionally need a professional crew to do manual inspections using rope
climbing or ground equipment. Yet, rope-based inspection may be exceedingly dangerous
for maintenance employees, and telephotography is sometimes unproductive, since micro-
scopic fractures and damage are sometimes imperceptible to the human eye. Moreover, a
typical examination necessitates substantial operating expenses and lengthy downtime.
UAV-based inspection offers a lot of potential for wind turbine maintenance because
of its high mobility, ease of deployment, and cheap maintenance cost. The usage of these
UAV-based systems ensures operator safety and requires less downtime for inspection. In
particular, UAV-based solutions can reduce inspection time compared to manned inspection.
Furthermore, for wind turbines located in severe environments, regular inspection may be
accomplished by obtaining high-deﬁnition photos or videos via loaded camera sensors for
precise fracture, impairment, and deterioration analysis. As a result, it is easy to observe
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046. https://doi.org/10.3390/app132413046 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/applsci
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 2 of 13
that UAV-based surveys are a more powerful and economical strategy that outperforms
conventional inspection techniques.
In the previous decade, quite a number of studies were conducted concentrating on
UAV-based independent surveys for wind turbines at rest, and the application of deep
learning techniques for damage detection [ 1–4]. The basic concept is to guide the UAV
through the set of predetermined inspection control points provided, using detection algo-
rithms concentrating on lines such as the Hough transform on the basis of uncomplicated
blade geometry (i.e., blades are viewed as line segments). Yet, because of their ﬂexibility,
blades are frequently missed during UAV inspection process. When checking in direct
proximity to the blade (e.g., 10 m), disregarding such a nonlinear component might result in
losing sight of the blade (particularly around the tip) if pursuing a set inspection route. As a
result, from a practical standpoint, it is critical to consider the curvature of the blade. Deep
learning techniques such as a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and Mask R-CNN
have also been utilized to improve detection performance [5,6].
Multiple failures in wind turbine generator blades can result in a variety of repercus-
sions, including decreased energy output, economic losses, equipment damage, human
accidents, and so on.
In this article, we present a deep learning vision-based technique for identifying spe-
ciﬁc defects on wind turbine blades. The proposed model is trained and tested exclusively
for damage detection and evaluated against existing deep learning techniques for defects
detection. Furthermore, ablation studies are performed to further improve the proposed
technique’s back-bone classiﬁcation model. To this end, we assembled a collection of photos
comprising the sorts of damage investigated in this study. The images are captured from a
110-MWac South African wind farm by means of a planned UAV-based drone inspection
during bi-annual maintenance inspections of the wind turbine generators.
The balance of the paper is structured in the following manner: Section 2 explains
the related study, Section 3 discusses the UAV speciﬁcation and wind farm speciﬁcation,
Section 4 describes the vision-based technique employing convolutional neural networks,
and Section 5 describes and discusses experimentation and ﬁndings. Finally, Section 6
brings the process to a close.
2. Related Work
The authors of “A New Deep Class-Imbalanced Semisupervised Model for Wind Tur-
bine Blade Icing Detection” suggested a particular deep class-imbalanced, semisupervised
prototype for estimating icing conditions on wind turbine blades. A prototype network that
is able to stabilize the classes for tagged and unlabeled data is implemented to tackle the
class-imbalance problem. By comparing the correlation of models for unlabeled and labeled
instances in a latent feature space, the provided prototype network can classify unlabeled
data as well as rebalance collected characteristics. The authors suggested enhancing the
feature extractor’s feature extraction capability by including an additional channel attention
module. Last but not least, we carefully evaluated the proposed model using baseline
comparison, ablation study, and online detection. The ﬁndings show that the suggested
model is superior and effective [1].
The authors of “A Novel Vision-Based Approach Utilizing Deep Learning for Damage
Inspection in Wind Turbine Blades” proposed a deep learning vision-based method for
detecting fractures, wear, and other defects on wind turbine blades. They also display a
proof-of-concept that makes use of a robotic tool to take pictures of the blades’ surfaces and
automatically identify damage. To achieve this, a gallery of images showcasing the various
kinds of impairments and breakages assessed in the study was assembled. A convolutional
neural network was then trained on the images to detect damage. Following that, a
prototype was made. In order to scan the entire surface of the wind turbine blades, a robot
with a camera attached and a straightforward route-planning method were developed. A
wind turbine model was created in order to examine the entire mechatronics setup [2].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 3 of 13
The authors of “A New Vision-Based Method Using Deep Learning for Damage
Inspection in Wind Turbine Blades” proposed a distributed, collision-free command strategy
for many drones which is computationally light and highly scalable. Unmanned aerial
vehicles (UAVs) are guided along predetermined ﬂight paths by the system to monitor
structural assets like wind turbines, ﬂare stacks, and tanks. Automated structural inspection
employs this strategy to increase coverage by minimizing unscanned areas. To ensure
total coverage of the target item, they perform coverage path planning (CPP). Contrarily,
humans conduct visual inspections using the UAVs’ video streaming [3].
On the basis of SCADA data, Wang et al. [ 4] suggested a deep autoencoder-based
methodology for recognizing imminent defects on wind turbine blades. Nevertheless, this
strategy concentrated on the forecast of blade failures, with no mention of methods for
detecting early-stage ﬂaws and continually monitoring their progression.
A rising trend of employing UAVs to monitor wind turbine blade surface conditions
has been found to increase the effectiveness of wind farm operations and maintenance,
particularly in offshore wind farms [5–10].
For these reasons, we propose developing a deep learning-based technique that can
cover the surface of wind turbine generators to forecast and detect different defects on the
main components such as the hub, nacelle, blades, and wind turbine tower, making wind
turbine generator maintenance more efﬁcient than manual inspection.
3. UA V Speciﬁcation and Wind Farm Speciﬁcation
3.1. Wind Farm and Wind Turbine Generators Speciﬁcation
This is a 110 MW-ac wind energy project based in South Africa. The wind farm
comprises 37 wind turbine generators in total. All the wind turbine generators installed are
of the same speciﬁcation: 3-bladed with horizontal axis and 2 MW. The hub height of the
WTGs is 91 m and the WTG rotor diameter is 117 m. The conﬁguration of all the WTGs
involves a connection to the main internal MV transformer via the main converter, grid,
and stator contactors and circuit breaker along a common electrical network. Thus, a total
of 37 converters and 37 MV transformers are installed in the wind farm facility. Finally, the
voltage connection level of the wind farm is at 137 kilovolts (kV).
3.2. UAV-Based Inspection System, Testbed, and Evaluation Domain Environment
Specialized Applications for Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems (RPAS)—the following
items were used during the drone ﬂight across the wind farm and were manufactured by
SZ DJI Technology Co., Ltd. headquartered in Shenzhen, China:
 DJI Matrice 200V2 RPAS Drone (Primary of RGB);
- Sufﬁcient TB55 Intelligent Batteries;
- Additional WB37 Controller Intelligent Batteries;
- High-Speed SD Cards DJI;
 Matrice 210V2 RPAS Drone (Secondary for Thermal);
 Matrice 210V2 RPAS Drone (Secondary for LiDAR);
 DJI ZenMuse L1 LiDAR sensor;
 DJI ZenMuse X5S (FC6520) Imaging Sensor;
- F-stop: f/5.6;
- Exposure time: 1/320 s;
- ISO speed: ISO-100;
- Exposure Bias: +0.7 step.
As part of the inspection system, the pilot positions the DJI Matrice 200V2/210V2
RPAS drone at the base of the turbine and sends it up to inspect the turbine autonomously.
The drone takes off, and while in ﬂight, it creates a three-dimensional model of the tur-
bine in real-time using cameras and sensors mounted on the drone. The GPS-provided
corresponding coordinates of the UAV are used to precisely geo-locate the wind turbine
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 4 of 13
generator, which can be obtained from the Zenmuse L1 LiDAR sensor and the DJI ZenMuse
X5S (FC6520) Imaging sensor mounted on the respective drone platforms.
The drone collects laser and RGB ﬂight data on the turbine to aid in the creation of a
more accurate model of the wind turbine. The data allows for the precise location and size
of the damage to be determined.
Based on the WTG component and material identiﬁer, the inspection results can
categorize the damage. For the two-megawatt wind turbine, the process takes about 15 min.
When the drone lands, the pilot picks it up, loads it into the back of the pickup truck, and
drives to the next turbine to repeat the process. The pilot connects the drone and tablet to
the internet at the end of the day, and all data is spontaneously transferred to the analytics
stage, where the client or owner of the wind farm can access and interact with their data.
Figure 1 depicts the entire scheme developed for UAV-based inspection of a utility-scale
wind farm.
Appl. Sci. 2023 , 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 13 
 
in real-time using cameras and sensors mounted on the drone. The GPS-provided corre-
sponding coordinates of the UAV are used to precisely geo-locate the wind turbine gen-
erator, which can be obtained from the Zenmuse L1 LiDAR sensor and the DJI ZenMuse X5S (FC6520) Imaging sensor mounted on  the respective drone platforms. 
The drone collects laser and RGB ﬂight data on the turbine to aid in the creation of a 
more accurate model of the wind turbine. The data allows for the precise location and size 
of the damage to be determined. 
Based on the WTG component and material identi ﬁer, the inspection results can cat-
egorize the damage. For the two-megawa tt wind turbine, the process takes about 15 min. 
When the drone lands, the pilot picks it up, load s it into the back of the pickup truck, and 
drives to the next turbine to repeat the proc ess. The pilot connects the drone and tablet to 
the internet at the end of the day, and all data  is spontaneously transferred to the analytics 
stage, where the client or owner of the wind farm can access and inte ract with their data. 
Figure 1 depicts the entire scheme developed for UAV-based inspection of a utility-scale 
wind farm. 
The wind farm owner analyzes and processes the laser and RGB image data collected 
by drone inspections. To analyze and pinpoint  defects on wind turbines, image analyses 
are performed using computer analytics and object detection technology. The computer 
vision platform runs a sequence of high-res olution RGB images of the Wind Turbine Gen-
erators, and it also generates a report on wind turbine blade anomaly detections using the 
software application platform. 
Both laser and RGB images are processed in  this article. The correlative image pro-
cessing and analytics functions use these raw images to distinguish the features of wind 
turbine blade damage. Since there are limited, publicized accessible trained techniques for 
this type of experiment, the images are manually processed by labeling each image that 
contains wind turbine blade damage in order to prepare it for image training. 
 
Figure 1. Overview of the complete UAV-based syst em for inspections at the wind farm. 
  
Figure 1. Overview of the complete UAV-based system for inspections at the wind farm.
The wind farm owner analyzes and processes the laser and RGB image data collected
by drone inspections. To analyze and pinpoint defects on wind turbines, image analyses are
performed using computer analytics and object detection technology. The computer vision
platform runs a sequence of high-resolution RGB images of the Wind Turbine Generators,
and it also generates a report on wind turbine blade anomaly detections using the software
application platform.
Both laser and RGB images are processed in this article. The correlative image pro-
cessing and analytics functions use these raw images to distinguish the features of wind
turbine blade damage. Since there are limited, publicized accessible trained techniques for
this type of experiment, the images are manually processed by labeling each image that
contains wind turbine blade damage in order to prepare it for image training.
3.3. Typical Defects on Wind Turbine Blades
Wind farm operators can reduce the underperformance of wind energy facilities by
being proactive in identifying, repairing, or replacing wind turbine blades using best prac-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 5 of 13
tice preventative maintenance measures. Wind turbine blades of various types experience
both similar and dissimilar types of defects. The commonly visible defects of wind turbine
blades are investigated in this article. The part that follows discusses some of these wind
turbine blade ﬂaws in greater detail, and Figure 2 illustrates the typical defects more clearly:
(1) Blade Cracks (along the suction or leading edge): Minor issues (cracks and chips),
and crucial problems that can seriously harm the blade exterior, can both cause
blade damage. Cracks can form as a result of a variety of factors, including high
temperatures or extreme weather conditions. Nevertheless, they are typically found
during routine inspections and are simple to ﬁx. The same cannot be said for web
cracks, which may not be visible at ﬁrst. High blade stress causes internal cracks to
form, necessitating a complex repair by highly qualiﬁed engineers.
(2) Delamination: Delamination can be caused by structural damage, blade stress, or a
manufacturing defect. This entails splitting laminate layers and, at times, bending the
blades 2 to 5 m at the tips. Blade cracks can also be caused by glue line delamination,
most commonly on the trailing edge. This can have an effect on variables like blade
strength and stability [11–13].
(3) Leading Edge Erosion: This is perhaps the most prevalent and frequently discussed
problem that has a signiﬁcant impact on WTG performance and, as a result, energy
output. Initially, turbines were not protected, and they began to deteriorate early
in their warranty period. Leading edge protection (LEP) is now installed during
the manufacturing stage, a practice which has recently changed. Before this, asset
owners had to be aware of and plan for leading edge erosion prevention. In order to
protect their investment, they can use blade protection tape, paint, or longer-lasting
polyurethane shells [11,14].
(4) Lightning strike damage: Lightning strikes may be the most harmful blade problems.
This is usually due to the remote locations and unstable environments in which WTGs
operate. They are extremely vulnerable to problems caused by extreme weather
conditions. The impact on the structure of the blade is noticeable, and repairs are
very expensive, frequently resulting in long turbine downtime. It is critical that
lightning protection systems (LPS) function properly and are inspected on a regular
basis [11,12].
(5) Fatigue Damage: The word “fatigue” refers to the inability of a material to withstand
cyclic applied loads that are fully tolerable when applied just once or a few times. A
wind turbine is subjected to repetitive loads throughout its operational lifetime, which
adds to the overall structure’s fatigue. These loads are primarily caused by wind and
can be steady loads, transient loads brought on by sudden events like gusts, periodic
loads brought on by wind shear, or stochastic loads brought on by turbulence. The
cyclic starts and stops of the turbine, yaw error, yaw motion, resonance-induced loads
from structure vibration, and gravity can all result in additional loads.
3.4. Proposed Technique for Wind Turbine Blade Defect Detection
(1) Proposed Model for Feature Extraction
The Res-CNN3 is made up of three convolutional neural networks that are identical
and concatenated, including residual blocks with skip connections. The neural network’s
skip connections obtain activation from the top layer and direct it to a lower layer. As a
result, it is possible to train deeper networks in a more straightforward manner [15].
(2) Defect Classiﬁcation Deep Neural Network
With the temporal channel complexity simpliﬁcation design, we can process the wind
turbine blade image through the same number of channels more than once, which increases
handling efﬁciency for complex features and precision in identifying the RGB delta across
the wind turbine blade image, while requiring the least amount of computational resources
on the training and testing platforms. The applied technique is referred to as Temporal
Channel Complexity Simpliﬁcation (or TCCS).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 6 of 13
Appl. Sci. 2023 , 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 13 
 
 
Figure 2. Review of images of wind  turbine blades with di ﬀerent defects.  
3.4. Proposed Technique for Wind Turbine Blade Defect Detection 
(1) Proposed Model for Feature Extraction 
The Res-CNN3 is made up of three convolut ional neural networks that are identical 
and concatenated, including resi dual blocks with skip conne ctions. The neural network’s 
skip connections obtain activation from the to p layer and direct it to a lower layer. As a 
result, it is possible to train deeper networ ks in a more straightforward manner [15]. 
(2) Defect Classi ﬁcation Deep Neural Network 
With the temporal channel complexity simpli ﬁcation design, we can process the wind 
turbine blade image through the same number  o f c h an n e l s  m o r e  t h an  o n c e ,  w h ic h  in -
creases handling e ﬃciency for complex features and precision in identifying the RGB 
delta across the wind turbine blade image, while requiring the least amount of computa-
tional resources on the training and testing platforms. The applied technique is referred 
to as Temporal Channel Complexity Simpli ﬁcation (or TCCS). 
(3) Defects Regions Detection of Wind Turbine Blades 
This function of detecting defect regions in wind turbine blade images uses a bipar-
tite approach to determine whether or not the wind turbine blade image contains RGB 
delta indicative of wind turbine blad e defects. This commences detailed and de ﬁnitive 
defect region object detection. Thus, wind turbine blade defects detection must come ﬁrst. 
The wind turbine blade images’ anomaly detection process is re ﬁned thanks to the 
thoughtful creation and alteration of the suggested technique for defect classi ﬁcation and 
Figure 2. Review of images of wind turbine blades with different defects.
(3) Defects Regions Detection of Wind Turbine Blades
This function of detecting defect regions in wind turbine blade images uses a bipartite
approach to determine whether or not the wind turbine blade image contains RGB delta
indicative of wind turbine blade defects. This commences detailed and deﬁnitive defect
region object detection. Thus, wind turbine blade defects detection must come ﬁrst. The
wind turbine blade images’ anomaly detection process is reﬁned thanks to the thoughtful
creation and alteration of the suggested technique for defect classiﬁcation and feature
extraction. The ﬁrst layers of the suggested feature extraction model are designed to extract
the features of the image with the damaged wind turbine blade.
Because the drone ﬂight across the individual wind turbine generators installed in the
wind farm represents arrays of wind turbine blades rather than individual wind turbine
blades, individual wind turbine blade objects do not typically occupy the entire image, but
rather, multiple wind turbine blade objects connected across different WTGs in the wind
farm do. This feature of the dataset inspired the design of the DCNN for detecting defects
regions in wind turbine blades. Instead of relying on multi-scale computation due to some
multi-scale features and stacking due to objects occupying the entire image, we rely on
averaging and max-pooling.
Logistic regression log( ) is used as the loss function. Thus, the following explanation
can be given for the objective function:
Ldn
xd
i,yd
io
;Wd
=yd
ilog
p
yd
ixd
i;Wd
) (1)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 7 of 13
p() means the probability of the corresponding model.
(4) Defect region object detection of wind turbine blade
Once the wind turbine blade defects region detection has occurred, the more detailed
and categorical defects region object detection follows. To accomplish this, the Selective
Search (SS) algorithm [ 16,17] is used to place several RoIs in the laser image of the wind
turbine blade. The laser and RGB region object, along with the laser and RGB image and
the RoIs, will then be detected by the defects region object detection model. Finally, the
proposed technique’s ﬁnal output determines and predicts the classiﬁcation and location of
each RoI. In general, the scale of the complete laser and RGB image of the wind turbine
blade is much larger than the scale of the defective wind turbine blade regions in the laser
image. The RoIs in the input wind turbine blade laser image are predicted by the Selective
Search (SS) algorithm. The defects of the wind turbine blade are located within the area
of these RoIs via RGB delta. Selective Search is thus very useful for defects region object
detection. Each RoI is represented by a Bounding Box based on the SS’s region proposal
coordinates. The SS equation is as follows:

Sk
j	
k=1:K=
S1
j;S2
j;S3
j. . .SK
j
=fSS
xod
j
(2)
Figure 3 below outlines the framework of Res-CNN3 for defective wind turbine blades
region object detection.
Appl. Sci. 2023 , 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 13 
 
 
Figure 3. Framework of Res-CNN3 for defective wind turbine blades region object detection. 
4. Proposed Experimental Approach 
4.1. Dataset Details and Image Processing 
The laser and RGB images of the wind turb ine blades were acquired from a 110 MWp 
wind farm developed in Eastern Cape Province, South Africa. All the laser images were collected by the DJI Zenmuse XT2 Radiometric Imaging Sensor 19 mm 640 mounted on 
the DJI Matrice 200V2 RPAS drone and the DJ I Matrice 210V2 RPAS drone between 11:00 
AM and 5:00 PM during the fair days of October. The following minimum safe ﬂying 
conditions are a prerequisite  to each UAS autonomous ﬂight, and no ﬂights were con-
ducted under these conditions: wind speed higher  than 12 m/s; wind gust over 15 m/s; 
rain or electric storm present; temperatures over 50 °C or under 0 °C; inadequate light 
conditions (normal ﬂying should be done between 1 h after sunrise and 1 h before sunset); 
there are people accessing the area to be insp ected and no physical barriers are installed 
to assure safe conditions under the area to be  inspected; there is a risk or damage in the 
installations or environment that has been identi ﬁed and not remediated. This is im-
portant so as to meet the criteria described in IEC 61400 [18]. 
Each image is 5280 × 2970 in size and includes RGB image formats and laser images. 
The bit depth is 24, and the resolution is 72 dpi on both the horizontal and vertical axes. 
There are 14,892 of these RGB images altogether. All of the images show di ﬀerent wind 
turbine generators with various wind turbin e blade defects and multiple wind turbine 
blades or wind farm sub ﬁelds as summarized in Table 1. This can be used to diagnose and 
support systemic wind turbine blade defects and warranty claims for damaged blades. 
Table 1. PV module defects region object detection with di ﬀerent image scale transforms. 
WTG Blade Defect Type Training Set Test Set Total No. Im-
ages Total No. La-
bels 
Structural crack 546 215 761 854 
Top coat flaking (Fatigue damage) 350 190 540 709 
Figure 3. Framework of Res-CNN3 for defective wind turbine blades region object detection.
4. Proposed Experimental Approach
4.1. Dataset Details and Image Processing
The laser and RGB images of the wind turbine blades were acquired from a 110 MWp
wind farm developed in Eastern Cape Province, South Africa. All the laser images were
collected by the DJI Zenmuse XT2 Radiometric Imaging Sensor 19 mm 640 mounted on the
DJI Matrice 200V2 RPAS drone and the DJI Matrice 210V2 RPAS drone between 11:00 AM
and 5:00 PM during the fair days of October. The following minimum safe ﬂying conditions
are a prerequisite to each UAS autonomous ﬂight, and no ﬂights were conducted under
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 8 of 13
these conditions: wind speed higher than 12 m/s; wind gust over 15 m/s; rain or electric
storm present; temperatures over 50C or under 0C; inadequate light conditions (normal
ﬂying should be done between 1 h after sunrise and 1 h before sunset); there are people
accessing the area to be inspected and no physical barriers are installed to assure safe
conditions under the area to be inspected; there is a risk or damage in the installations or
environment that has been identiﬁed and not remediated. This is important so as to meet
the criteria described in IEC 61400 [18].
Each image is 5280 2970 in size and includes RGB image formats and laser images.
The bit depth is 24, and the resolution is 72 dpi on both the horizontal and vertical axes.
There are 14,892 of these RGB images altogether. All of the images show different wind
turbine generators with various wind turbine blade defects and multiple wind turbine
blades or wind farm subﬁelds as summarized in Table 1. This can be used to diagnose and
support systemic wind turbine blade defects and warranty claims for damaged blades.
Table 1. PV module defects region object detection with different image scale transforms.
WTG Blade Defect Type Training Set Test Set Total No. Images Total No. Labels
Structural crack 546 215 761 854
Top coat ﬂaking (Fatigue damage) 350 190 540 709
Top coat chips (Leading Edge erosion) 467 209 676 816
Top coat ﬂaking (Delamination) 189 67 256 302
Total 1552 681 2233 2681
4.2. Experimental Setup
Several deep learning models were trained, tested, and evaluated during the exper-
iments for efﬁciency observations. Inception-v3 [ 19] is a sophisticated and widely used
method that outperforms the majority of inception networks. DarkNet-53 is a deep learn-
ing algorithm with high detection accuracy that is gaining prevalence in utilization for
state-of-the-art object detection challenges [20]. InI-WRN-16-8-square-3 is a wide residual
network backbone application of the InI module that includes square G-ﬁlters for CNN
structure abstraction [ 21,22]. The InI-PyramidNet-mix-5 CNN technique is the result of
applying the InI module to the pyramidal residual network backbone [ 21,23,24], and it
includes mixed G-ﬁlters for structural modeling of CNNs. Additionally, GoogleNet [ 25]
and YOLO [26] were tested and evaluated for wind turbine blade defect detection.
Individual model performance was used to train the selected deep learning models.
All the models were trained and evaluated ﬁve times, and the average achievement was
described and detailed to ensure that the results were accurate. Structural cracks, Fatigue
damage, Leading Edge erosion, and Delamination are the most common anomaly types of
wind turbine blade defects detected during experiments.
4.3. Evaluation Metrics
Precision (P) and recall (R) were the evaluation metrics chosen to assess the perfor-
mance of the experimental methods, including the proposed method (R). The efﬁciency
of the defective wind turbine blade region object detection must be carefully tested and
analyzed. Average Precision (AP) is used in this article to represent the 11 interpolated
points on precision and recall curves [ 26]. It is also used for performance evaluation of
associated tests with Intersection over Union (IoU) 50% for the proposal Bounding Box
(BBox) and labeled BBox. The mean Average Precision mAP is used to reﬂect the average
classiﬁcation performance of the models for all classes. Furthermore, the average test time
of each image ( tATE) is used to assess the efﬁcacy of defective region object detection. The
following are the formulae for the evaluation metrics used in the experiments:
tATE=te/Kte(3)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 9 of 13
where tATEis described by the total test time ( tte) and iterations Kte.
P=TP
TP+FP(4)
where TP is True Positives and FP is False Positives.
R=TP
TP+FN(5)
where FN is False Negatives.
APIoU50%=1/11åPsmooth (k)IoU50% (6)
4.4. Parameter Setting
The proposed model’s parameters are set in a very speciﬁc order, which is determined
as part of the experimental process. The momentum is used to accelerate the convergence
of the designed loss function [ 27]. The model requires and employs weight decay given
a small assigned value to reduce training error. The proposed model’s training process
ends after 700 epochs because the accuracy no longer improves. The parameter settings are
summarized in Table 2 below.
Table 2. Experimental parameter settings.
Parameter Complete 700 Epochs
Batch size 16
Learning rate 0.03
Momentum 0.88
Weight decay 0.001
5. Results and Discussion
Here we conduct comprehensive ablation studies to uncover Res-CNN3’s potential in
wind turbine blades defects detection from RGB images. These ablations are based on the
residual network’s object detection performances on the entire wind farm’s wind turbine
blade defects dataset. The backbones in each ablation experiment are the individual Resnet
models with different numbers of parameters, and an improvement based on the TCCS
approach. We ablate the backbones (i.e., ResNet-34 [ 17], ResNet-101 [ 17] etc.) of Res-CNN3
to observe the object detection performances in Precision, Recall, mAP50 (%) and Average
test time (s). All the following ablation study experiments are conducted on the complete
training dataset.
The experimental results in Table 3 show that the Res-CNN3 wind turbine blades
defect detection model has a mAP of 80.6%, a parameter size of 51.7 M, and an average
test time of 0.036 s. Compared with ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS, the number of parameters
is increased by 26.1 M, the average test time of each image decreases by 0.006 s, and the
precision decreases by 0.7%. This evidently shows that the addition of TCCS + SS to
ResNet-50 certainly improves in detection accuracy performance, but slightly degrades
in detection test time, which is a unique scenario that calls for a selection of a technique
based on a compromise in one aspect of the technique’s performance. Each simpliﬁcation
strategy tweaks the conﬁguration of channels and the number of parameters on the basis
of the original and can also ensure that the loss of accuracy is not large.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 10 of 13
Table 3. Ablation experiment results.
Technique Precision (%) Recall (%) mAP (%) Parameters Average Test Time (s)
Res-CNN3 80.5% 80.9% 80.6% 51.7 M 0.036 s
ResNet-18 + TCCS + SS 79.4% 80.3% 77.6% 11.4 M 0.035 s
ResNet-34 + TCCS + SS 79.8% 80.1% 78.8% 21.8 M 0.046 s
ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS 81.2% 81.6% 81.6% 25.6 M 0.042 s
ResNet-152 + TCCS + SS 80.4% 81.7% 79.6% 60.2 M 0.051 s
In Figure 4 below, it appears that most of the methods, on average, perform terribly in
the categories of Fatigue damage and Leading Edge erosion. This can be explained by the
fact that these categories of defects involve small object detection. The topic of small object
detection is usually controversial and challenging. The primary issue is that ﬁne target
defects have a limited number of pixels, making it challenging to extract useful feature
information [ 15,28]. Figure 4 displays the outcomes of various algorithms on the dataset
for defective wind turbine blades. The target detection algorithms all deliver satisfactory
results for large target defects. The detection performance of small targets, however, still
has a signiﬁcant gap when compared to that of large targets. The majority of algorithms
seriously miss small target defects in the second and third rows of images. It is challenging
to extract the useful features of small target defects because they have few features. In terms
of Structural cracks, Leading Edge erosion, and Delamination defects detection, YOLO
performs remarkably well. It also achieves good detection performance for both big and
small target defects.
Appl. Sci. 2023 , 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 11 of 13 
 
detection, YOLO performs remarkably well. It  also achieves good detection performance 
for both big and small target defects. 
 
Figure 4. Average Precision (AP) of the proposed model compared to other state-of-the-art models 
for detection of di ﬀerent wind turbine blade defects. 
Following YOLO, the most promising technique is the ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS, which 
performs exceptionally well on Structural cracks, Leading Edge erosion and Delamination 
defects detection in a like manner, but with a lower con ﬁdence score, compared to YOLO. 
Moreover, ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS outperforms Res-CNN3 in Structural cracks, Leading 
Edge erosion and Delamination defects detect ion accuracy, but not in Fatigue damage 
detection accuracy. However, Res-CNN3 still outperforms ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS in all 
the defects category detection in terms of aver age testing time. Overall, the observation of 
the performance dynamics between Res-CNNN3 and ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS, clearly 
demonstrates the unique value of ablation stud ies in object detection training, testing, and 
analyses [29]. These studies certainly o ﬀer one the ability to carefully optimize and criti-
cally analyze the costs, bene ﬁts, and economics of each dete ction technique in order to 
recognize the most suitable technique base d on application, implementation, and pur-
pose. 
6. Conclusions 
Inspired by residual neural networks and concatenated CNNs, this study proposes a 
ResNet-based defect detection algorithm for wi nd turbine blades, together with an inte-
gration of the temporal channel complexity simpli ﬁcation approach. By means of multiple 
experiments, it is demonstrated that the YOLO model has the characteristics of high real-time performance and stable performance in th e wind turbine blade defect detection pipe-
line. The accuracy of YOLO is higher in all categories of defect detection compared to the 
proposed model in this work, except for th e detection of fatigue damage; however, the 
detection speed of Res-CNN3 is signi ﬁcantly higher than all other methods. Compared 
with other methods, YOLO improves the detection accuracy indicators Average Precision and mAP by 1.6% in the selected dataset. The good performance of the proposed model 
Res-CNN3 can be a ttributed to learning critical feature information well and at a rapid 
pace. The improved model of ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS is pro ﬁcient in detecting low-70.0%72.0%74.0%76.0%78.0%80.0%82.0%84.0%86.0%88.0%
Structural crack Fatig ue damage Leading Edge erosion DelaminationAccuracy (%)
Average Precision on typical wind turbine defectsResNet-50 + TCCS + SS
DarkNet-53
InI-WRN-16-8-square-3
Inception-v3
YOLO
DarkNet-53
Res-CNN3
InI-PyramidNet-mix-5
Figure 4. Average Precision (AP) of the proposed model compared to other state-of-the-art models
for detection of different wind turbine blade defects.
Following YOLO, the most promising technique is the ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS, which
performs exceptionally well on Structural cracks, Leading Edge erosion and Delamination
defects detection in a like manner, but with a lower conﬁdence score, compared to YOLO.
Moreover, ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS outperforms Res-CNN3 in Structural cracks, Leading
Edge erosion and Delamination defects detection accuracy, but not in Fatigue damage
detection accuracy. However, Res-CNN3 still outperforms ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS in all
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 11 of 13
the defects category detection in terms of average testing time. Overall, the observation
of the performance dynamics between Res-CNNN3 and ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS, clearly
demonstrates the unique value of ablation studies in object detection training, testing, and
analyses [ 29]. These studies certainly offer one the ability to carefully optimize and critically
analyze the costs, beneﬁts, and economics of each detection technique in order to recognize
the most suitable technique based on application, implementation, and purpose.
6. Conclusions
Inspired by residual neural networks and concatenated CNNs, this study proposes
a ResNet-based defect detection algorithm for wind turbine blades, together with an
integration of the temporal channel complexity simpliﬁcation approach. By means of
multiple experiments, it is demonstrated that the YOLO model has the characteristics
of high real-time performance and stable performance in the wind turbine blade defect
detection pipeline. The accuracy of YOLO is higher in all categories of defect detection
compared to the proposed model in this work, except for the detection of fatigue damage;
however, the detection speed of Res-CNN3 is signiﬁcantly higher than all other methods.
Compared with other methods, YOLO improves the detection accuracy indicators Average
Precision and mAP by 1.6% in the selected dataset. The good performance of the proposed
model Res-CNN3 can be attributed to learning critical feature information well and at
a rapid pace. The improved model of ResNet-50 + TCCS + SS is proﬁcient in detecting
low-resolution and unclear features of wind turbine blades, signiﬁcantly improving the
detection of small target defects; however, the precision improvement does not translate
to an improvement in detection speed. Therefore, a trade-off between detection speed
and accuracy has to be carefully assessed in selecting the most convenient technique.
Recommendations for future research are to technically investigate how the observations
in the experimental results can help in identifying the root causes of the different defects
and failures in wind turbine blades. Furthermore, the authors recommend applying this
strategy to the identiﬁcation of corrosion and loose nuts and bolts in wind turbine towers,
using detailed dimensional data of wind turbine blade and tower defects.
Author Contributions: K.M. was involved in the conceptualization, data validation, investigation,
and outlining of the experimental methodology of the research work presented. A.H. made contri-
butions in the formal analysis, writing review, and editing of the draft article. He was also heavily
embedded in the supervision and project administration of the presented research work. T.S. made
contributions in the conceptualization of the presented investigation. Furthermore, he contributed to
the formal analysis, research supervision, writing review, and editing of the draft article. All authors
have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by the South African Space Agency (SANSA) under the “PhD
Bursary program”.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available on request from the
corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to restrictions regarding operating
company privacy.
Acknowledgments: We thank the University of Johannesburg for providing the needed resources
from the Institute of Intelligent Systems that supported the experimental phase of this research work.
Additional thanks go to SANSA for providing the funding needed to help make this research work
a success.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. The funders had no role in the design
of the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or
in the decision to publish the results.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 12 of 13
References
1. Duncombe, J.U. Infrared navigation—Part I: An assessment of feasibility. IEEE Trans. Electron. Devices 1959 ,ED–11 , 34–39.
2. Cheng, X.; Shi, F.; Liu, X.; Zhao, M.; Chen, S. A Novel Deep Class-Imbalanced Semisupervised Model for Wind Turbine Blade
Icing Detection. IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst. 2022 ,33, 2558–2570. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
3. Moreno, S.; Peña, M.; Toledo, A.; Treviño, R.; Ponce, H. A New Vision-Based Method Using Deep Learning for Damage Inspection
in Wind Turbine Blades. In Proceedings of the 2018 15th International Conference on Electrical Engineering, Computing Science
and Automatic Control (CCE), Mexico City, Mexico, 5–7 September 2018; pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
4. Wang, L.; Zhang, Z.; Xu, J.; Liu, R. Wind turbine blade breakage monitoring with deep autoencoders. IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 2018 ,
9, 2824–2833. [CrossRef]
5. Parlange, R. Vision-based autonomous navigation for wind turbine inspection using an unmanned aerial vehicle. In Proceedings
of the 10th International Micro-Air Vehicles Conference, Melbourne, Australia, 22–23 November 2019.
6. Gu, W.; Hu, D.; Cheng, L.; Cao, Y.; Rizzo, A.; Valavanis, K.P . Autonomous Wind Turbine Inspection using a Quadrotor. In
Proceedings of the 2020 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS), Athens, Greece, 1–4 September 2020;
pp. 709–715. [CrossRef]
7. Moolan-Feroze, O.; Karachalios, K.; Nikolaidis, D.N.; Calway, A. Improving drone localisation around wind turbines using
monocular model-based tracking. In Proceedings of the 2019 International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
Montreal, QC, Canada, 20–24 May 2019; pp. 7713–7719.
8. Guo, H.; Cui, Q.; Wang, J.; Fang, X.; Yang, W.; Li, Z. Detecting and positioning of wind turbine blade tips for uav-based automatic
inspection. In Proceedings of the IGARSS 2019–2019 IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, Yokohama,
Japan, 28 July–2 August 2019; pp. 1374–1377.
9. Clark, R.A.; Punzo, G.; MacLeod, C.N.; Dobie, G.; Summan, R.; Bolton, G.; Pierce, S.G.; Macdonald, M. Autonomous and scalable
control for remote inspection with multiple aerial vehicles. Robot. Auton. Syst. 2017 ,87, 258–268. [CrossRef]
10. Inside Unmanned Systems. Cyberhawk Announces Wind Turbine Inspection Service ; Inside Unmanned Systems: Red Bank, NJ, USA,
2015.
11. Mishnaevsky, L., Jr. Root Causes and Mechanisms of Failure of Wind Turbine Blades: Overview. Materials 2022 ,15, 2959.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
12. Wang, W.; Xue, Y.; He, C.; Zhao, Y. Defect Types and Mechanism of Wind Turbine Blades. Encyclopedia. Available online:
https://encyclopedia.pub/entry/27751 (accessed on 5 March 2023).
13. Tracy, J.; Bosco, N.; Dauskardt, R. Encapsulant adhesion to surface metallization on photovoltaic cells. IEEE J. Photovolt. 2017 ,7,
1635–1639. [CrossRef]
14. Banaszek, A.; Łosiewicz, Z.; Jurczak, W. Corrosion inﬂuence on safety of hydraulic pipelines installed on decks of contemporary
product and chemical tankers. Pol. Marit. Res. 2018 ,25, 71–77. [CrossRef]
15. Li, X.; Li, W.; Yang, Q.; Yan, W.; Zomaya, A.Y. Edge-Computing-Enabled Unmanned Module Defect Detection and Diagnosis
System for Large-Scale Photovoltaic Plants. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020 ,7, 9651–9663. [CrossRef]
16. Uijlings, J.R.R.; van de Sande, K.E.A.; Gevers, T.; Smeulders, A.W.M. Selective search for object recognition. Int. J. Comput. Vis.
2013 ,104, 154–171. [CrossRef]
17. He, K.; Zhang, X.; Ren, S.; Sun, J. Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Las Vegas, NV , USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 770–778. [CrossRef]
18. IEC 61400-1:2019 ; Wind Energy Generation Systems—Part 1: Design Requirement. International Electrotechnical Commission
(IEC): Geneva, Switzerland, 2019.
19. Szegedy, C.; Vanhoucke, V .; Ioffe, S.; Shlens, J.; Wojna, Z. Rethinking the Inception Architecture for Computer Vision. In
Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Las Vegas, NV , USA, 27–30 June
2016; pp. 2818–2826. [CrossRef]
20. Redmon, J.; Farhadi, A. YOLOv3: An incremental improvement. arXiv 2018 , arXiv:1804.02767.
21. Hu, Y.; Wen, G.; Luo, M.; Dai, D.; Cao, W.; Yu, Z.; Hall, W. Inner-Imaging Networks: Put Lenses Into Convolutional Structure.
IEEE Trans. Cybern. 2021 ,52, 8547–8560. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
22. Zagoruyko, S.; Komodakis, N. Wide residual networks. In Proceedings of the BMVC, York, UK, 19–22 September 2016;
pp. 87.1–87.12.
23. Han, D.; Kim, J.; Kim, J. Deep pyramidal residual networks. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Honolulu, HI, USA, 21–26 July 2017; pp. 6307–6315.
24. He, K.; Zhang, X.; Ren, S.; Sun, J. Spatial pyramid pooling in deep convolutional networks for visual recognition. IEEE Trans.
Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2015 ,37, 1904–1916. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
25. Szegedy, C.; Liu, W.; Jia, Y.; Sermanet, P .; Reed, S.; Anguelov, D.; Erhan, S.; Vanhoucke, V .; Rabinovich, A. Going deeper with
convolutions. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Boston, MA,
USA, 7–12 June 2015; pp. 1–9. [CrossRef]
26. Redmon, J.; Divvala, S.; Girshick, R.; Farhadi, A. You Only Look Once: Uniﬁed, Real-Time Object Detection. In Proceedings of the
2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Las Vegas, NV , USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 779–788.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 13046 13 of 13
27. Botev, A.; Lever, G.; Barber, D. Nesterov’s accelerated gradient and momentum as approximations to regularised update descent.
In Proceedings of the 2017 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN), Anchorage, AK, USA, 14–19 May 2017;
pp. 1899–1903.
28. Xu, Q.; Lin, R.; Yue, H.; Huang, H.; Yang, Y.; Yao, Z. Research on small target detection in driving scenarios based on improved
YOLO network. IEEE Access 2020 ,8, 27574–27583. [CrossRef]
29. Masita, K.; Hasan, A.; Shongwe, T. 75MW AC PV Module Field Anomaly Detection Using Drone-Based IR Orthogonal Images
With Res-CNN3 Detector. IEEE Access 2022 ,10, 83711–83722. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
