Citation: Wang, W.; Xue, Y.; He, C.;
Zhao, Y. Review of the Typical
Damage and Damage-Detection
Methods of Large Wind Turbine
Blades. Energies 2022 ,15, 5672.
https://doi.org/10.3390/en15155672
Academic Editor: Jos éA.F.O.
Correia
Received: 6 July 2022
Accepted: 1 August 2022
Published: 4 August 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
energies
Review
Review of the Typical Damage and Damage-Detection Methods
of Large Wind T urbine Blades
Wenjie Wang, Yu Xue *, Chengkuan He and Yongnian Zhao
College of Engineering, Ocean University of China, Qingdao 266100, China
*Correspondence: xueyu7231@ouc.edu.cn
Abstract: With global warming and the depletion of fossil energy sources, renewable energy is
gradually replacing non-renewable energy as the main energy in the future. As one of the fastest
growing renewable energy sources, the safety and reliability of wind energy have been paid more
and more attention. The size of modern wind turbines is becoming larger and larger. As the main
component of wind turbines to capture energy, the blade is often damaged by various complex
environments and irregular loads. Therefore, the health monitoring and damage identiﬁcation of
wind turbine blades have become a main research focus. At present, in addition to the overview of
various detection methods of wind turbine blades, there is a lack of comprehensive classiﬁcations
and overviews of the main damage types, damage-generation mechanisms, and basic principles of
the damage-detection technology of wind turbine blades. In this paper, ﬁrstly, the common fault
types of wind turbine blades, such as trailing edge cracking, lightning strike, leading edge corrosion
pollution, icing, and delamination, as well as their generation mechanism, are comprehensively
analyzed. Then, the basic principles and the latest research progress of the current main detection
technologies, such as vision, ultrasonic, thermal imaging, vibration, acoustic emission, and so on, are
comprehensively reviewed. The advantages and limitations of the various detection technologies for
practical application are summarized. Finally, through a comparative analysis of the various damage-
detection technologies, we try to ﬁnd potential future research directions, and draw conclusions. This
paper will provide a reference for understanding the mechanism behind the main damage types and
the damage-detection methods of wind turbine blades. It has important reference value for further
promoting practical research of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology and grasping this
research direction.
Keywords: wind energy; wind turbine blade; damage-detection techniques; wind turbine blade
damage; online monitoring; sensor
1. Introduction
Energy plays an important supporting role in global economic development. To realize
the green and sustainable development of the global economy, the reform of energy is
imperative. At present, non-renewable energy sources, such as fossil energy, is still the
main energy in the world. In 2019, non-renewable energy accounted for 84.32% of the total
global energy consumption [ 1]. The high carbon emission of non-renewable energy not only
has a signiﬁcant impact on the global climate deterioration, but also violates the concept of
sustainable development of the global economy. On the other hand, with the continuous
depletion of fossil energy, human beings have to turn their energy demand to renewable
energy. Therefore, renewable energy will replace fossil energy and become the main
energy of mankind in the future. In the ﬁrst quarter of 2020, renewable energy accounted
for 28% of global power generation, compared with 26% in 2019. The main sources are
hydropower, wind energy, and solar energy [ 2]. As a clean, renewable energy source with
mature technology, wind energy has become one of the fastest growing renewable energy
sources. Wind energy accounts for 5.5% of global renewable energy power generation [ 3].
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672. https://doi.org/10.3390/en15155672 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 2 of 31
In ScienceDirect’s overall average share of publications on different renewable energy
sources between 1996 and 2020, wind accounted for more than half, at 60% [ 4]. According
to the GWEC|2022 global wind energy report, the global wind energy market is expected
to grow at an average annual rate of 6.6% in the next ﬁve years [ 5], as shown in Figure 1.
The compound annual growth rate of global onshore wind power is 6.1%. The compound
annual growth rate of global offshore wind power in the next ﬁve years is 8.3%. In other
words, the world is expected to see an increase of 90 GW in offshore power generation
capacity from 2022 to 2026 [ 5]. Compared with onshore wind power, offshore wind power
has a higher wind speed, cause less turbulence, occupy fewer land resources, has a relatively
small impact on the environment, and the power generation of the same type of offshore
wind farms is 50% more than that of onshore wind farms [ 6]. These are important reasons
for the rapid development of offshore wind power in recent years.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  2 of 32  
 source with mature technology, wind energy has become one of the fastest growing re-
newable energy sources. Wind energy accounts for 5.5% of global renewable energy 
power generation [ 3]. In ScienceDirect ’s overall average share of publications on different 
renewab le energy sources between 1996 and 2020, wind accounted for more than half , at 
60% [4]. According to the GWEC|2022 global wind energy report, the global wind energy 
market is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 6.6% in the next five years [ 5], as 
shown in Figure 1. The compound annual growth rate of global onshore wind power is 
6.1%.  The compound annual growth rate of global offshore wind power in the next five 
years is 8.3%. In other words, the world is expected to see an increase of 90 GW in offshore 
power generation capacity from 2022 to 2026 [ 5]. Compared with onshore wind power, 
offshore wind power has a higher wind speed, cause less turbulence, occupy fewer land resources, has a relatively small impact on the environment, and the power genera tion of 
the same type of offshore wind farms  is 50% more than that of onshore wind farms  [6]. 
These are important reasons for the rapid development of offshore wind power in recent years.  
 
Figure 1. New wind power installations outlook  for 2022 –2026 (GW) . 
With the rapid development of wind power generation, the capacity of a single wind 
turbine  unit, which is the equipment necessary to convert  wind into energy, has becomes 
larger. Therefore, the size of the blade, the wind energy -captur ing component of the  wind 
turbine, is also increasing;  indeed, the length of a  single blade has reached more than 100 
m. As the main component of the wind turbine, the cost of the blade accounts for 20% of 
the cost of a single wind turbine [ 7]. At present, most wind turbine b lades are made of 
glass fiber -reinforced polymer (GFRP), with  carbon fiber -reinforced polymer (CFRP) also 
used in some key parts. Due to environmental constraints, most wind farms are built in 
remote areas. These areas have a harsh environment, so the blades of wind turbines are 
facing the test of various harsh environments. As shown in Figure 2, about 19.4% of the 
failures of wind turbine s are blade failures [ 8]. There are mainly two aspects of blade fail-
ure. On the one hand, it is some defects caused by h uman factors and the limitation of the 
generation process in the process of blade manufacturing. On the other hand, it is the damage caused by various harsh and complex environments during operation, such as 
icing, irregular load, moisture absorption, hail, ultraviolet radiation, atmospheric corro-
sion, fatigue, gust or lightning, and other uncertain factors [ 9]. When the wind turbine 
blade fails, if the maintenance is not carried out in time, it will bring higher operation and 
maintenance costs. In serious cases, it will lead to the complete damage of the wind tur-bine generator set, resulting in disastrous consequences and huge economic losses [ 10]. 72.591.9 89.9 92.2 94.9 97.421.18.7 12.513.524.531.4
020406080100120140
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026CAGR 6.6%Offshore
Onshore
Figure 1. New wind power installations outlook for 2022–2026 (GW).
With the rapid development of wind power generation, the capacity of a single wind
turbine unit, which is the equipment necessary to convert wind into energy, has becomes
larger. Therefore, the size of the blade, the wind energy-capturing component of the wind
turbine, is also increasing; indeed, the length of a single blade has reached more than 100 m.
As the main component of the wind turbine, the cost of the blade accounts for 20% of the
cost of a single wind turbine [ 7]. At present, most wind turbine blades are made of glass
ﬁber-reinforced polymer (GFRP), with carbon ﬁber-reinforced polymer (CFRP) also used in
some key parts. Due to environmental constraints, most wind farms are built in remote
areas. These areas have a harsh environment, so the blades of wind turbines are facing the
test of various harsh environments. As shown in Figure 2, about 19.4% of the failures of
wind turbines are blade failures [ 8]. There are mainly two aspects of blade failure. On the
one hand, it is some defects caused by human factors and the limitation of the generation
process in the process of blade manufacturing. On the other hand, it is the damage caused
by various harsh and complex environments during operation, such as icing, irregular
load, moisture absorption, hail, ultraviolet radiation, atmospheric corrosion, fatigue, gust
or lightning, and other uncertain factors [ 9]. When the wind turbine blade fails, if the
maintenance is not carried out in time, it will bring higher operation and maintenance
costs. In serious cases, it will lead to the complete damage of the wind turbine generator
set, resulting in disastrous consequences and huge economic losses [ 10]. Especially for
offshore wind turbines, its operation and maintenance costs are about 15–35% of the total
cost [ 11]. So, real-time monitoring, to understand the health of the turbine blades and
facilitate emergency operation and maintenance, would prevent further damage to the
blades, and thus is very important.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 3 of 31
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  3 of 32  
 Especially for offshore wind turbine s, its operation and maintenance cost s are  about 15 –
35% of the total cost [ 11]. So, real-time monitoring , to understand the health of the turbine 
blades and facilitate emergency operation and maintenance,  would  prevent further dam-
age to the blades,  and thus is  very important.  
 
Figure 2. Distribution of wind turbine damage types . 
The main sequence of wind turbine blade health monitoring is to monitor whether 
the blade is damaged  the first time, and then find the specific location of the damage, 
judge the severity of the damage, and find the best solution. It can detect blade damage 
and give early warning in real time under blade operation conditions, which is very im-
portant to avoid the huge economic cost and catastrophic accidents. At present, there are 
many methods to monitor the health status of wind turbine blades, but the practical ap-
plications mainly include vibration monitoring, acoustic emission monitoring, strain monitoring, ultrasonic testing, thermal imaging testing, machine vision testing, and so on. 
Although there have been many reviews on the detection and monitoring of wind turbine 
blades, we ask, what are the main faults of wind turbine blades, what is the generation 
mechanism, what are the basic principles of various detection technologies,  and what are 
the potential research directions and trends in the future.  Considering these, there is an 
urgent need to comprehensively summarize, analyze,  and study the main damage types 
and generation mechanism of wind turbine blades . Further more, detailed discussion of 
and research on the research progress of various wind t urbine blade damage -detection 
technologies, as well as their advantages and limitations in practice, would provide a 
clearer research direction for researchers of wind turbine blade damage- detection tech-
nology in the future, and promote the more practical research of various detection tech-nologies.  
The framework of this study is shown in Figure 3, and the highlights of this study 
are as follows:  
• Firstly, the types of common faults and defects of wind turbine blades are compre-
hensively summarized, and the ma in generation mechanisms of common faults and 
defects of the blades are deeply analyzed.  
• Then, the principle and the latest research progress of the main damage- detection 
technologies,  such as vision, ultrasound, thermal imaging, vibration , and acoustic 
emission , are comprehensively and deeply summarized. 
• The advantages and limitations of each wind turbine blade damage -detection tech-
nology are summarized and analyzed.  
• Finally, various blade damage -detection methods are compared, a future potential 
research direction for wind turbine blade damage -detection technology is put for-
ward, and a conclusion is drawn.  
15%
11%
9%
8%
7% 8%3%20%19%
fire structural environmental damage
human injury fatal accidents transport
ice throw Blade failure Unknown
Figure 2. Distribution of wind turbine damage types.
The main sequence of wind turbine blade health monitoring is to monitor whether the
blade is damaged the ﬁrst time, and then ﬁnd the speciﬁc location of the damage, judge
the severity of the damage, and ﬁnd the best solution. It can detect blade damage and
give early warning in real time under blade operation conditions, which is very important
to avoid the huge economic cost and catastrophic accidents. At present, there are many
methods to monitor the health status of wind turbine blades, but the practical applications
mainly include vibration monitoring, acoustic emission monitoring, strain monitoring,
ultrasonic testing, thermal imaging testing, machine vision testing, and so on. Although
there have been many reviews on the detection and monitoring of wind turbine blades, we
ask, what are the main faults of wind turbine blades, what is the generation mechanism,
what are the basic principles of various detection technologies, and what are the potential
research directions and trends in the future. Considering these, there is an urgent need to
comprehensively summarize, analyze, and study the main damage types and generation
mechanism of wind turbine blades. Furthermore, detailed discussion of and research on the
research progress of various wind turbine blade damage-detection technologies, as well as
their advantages and limitations in practice, would provide a clearer research direction for
researchers of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology in the future, and promote
the more practical research of various detection technologies.
The framework of this study is shown in Figure 3, and the highlights of this study are
as follows:
 Firstly, the types of common faults and defects of wind turbine blades are compre-
hensively summarized, and the main generation mechanisms of common faults and
defects of the blades are deeply analyzed.
 Then, the principle and the latest research progress of the main damage-detection
technologies, such as vision, ultrasound, thermal imaging, vibration, and acoustic
emission, are comprehensively and deeply summarized.
 The advantages and limitations of each wind turbine blade damage-detection technol-
ogy are summarized and analyzed.
 Finally, various blade damage-detection methods are compared, a future potential
research direction for wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is put forward,
and a conclusion is drawn.
The rest of this paper is as follows. The second part mainly analyzes the fault types
and generation mechanism of wind turbine blades. The third part summarizes the main
monitoring methods, mechanisms, and research progress of the typical fault types of wind
turbine blades, and analyzes the advantages and disadvantages of each detection technol-
ogy. In the fourth part, various detection methods are compared and analyzed through
tables, and those research directions with more development potential are discussed. In the
ﬁfth part, a summary is made.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 4 of 31
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  4 of 32  
  
Figure 3. Framework of the present study . 
The rest of this paper is as follows. The second part mainly analyzes the fault types 
and generation mechanism of wind turbine blades. The third part summarizes the main 
monitoring methods, mechanisms,  and research progress of the typical fault types of wind 
turbine blades, and analyzes the advantages and disadvantages of each detection technol-
ogy.  In the fourth part, various detection methods are compared and analyzed through 
tables, and t hose  research directions with more development potential are discussed. In 
the fifth part, a summary is made. 
2. Main Defect Types and Mechanism  
There are two  main reasons for the damage to wind turbine blades. On the one hand, 
the wind turbine is in a harsh external environment, and the damage faults are directly 
caused by external factors, such as strong wind, rain or snow, salt fog, lightning str ike, 
freezin g, sandstorm, insects, etc. The other is the invisible defects caused by process prob-
lems in the technology of man- made manufacturing. These invisible defects are subject to 
repeated high loads and harsh external environments during the installation and op era-
tion of the wind turbine. The gradual expansion of invisible defects can lead to damage. Due to the complexity of the blade material and structure, each damage type may be 
caused by a combination of causes. Different defects in the production process an d differ-
ent operating conditions will cause different damage types. Therefore, the typical damage 
types and main damage mechanisms will be reviewed below.  
2.1. Trailing Edge Cracking  
The main manufacturing materials of wind turbine blades are glass fiber -reinforced 
polymer (GFRP) and carbon fiber -reinforced polymer (CFRP). The two half shells of the 
blade , which are made of these two materials , are bonded to form a complete blade. The 
trailing edge of the wind turbine blade is the area where the two half shells are bonded. 
There are many damage modes in this area, and cracking is the main damage mode, which 
is mainly divided into a longitudinal crack and transverse crack. The longitudinal crack 
at the trailing edge refers to the crack consistent with the length direction of the blade  [12], 
as shown in Figure 4. Such cracks mainly occur at the root and tip of the blade. The longi-
tudinal crack at the trailing edge of the tip is mainly due to a  reduction in the thickness of Review of the typical damage 
and damage -detection methods 
of large wind turbine blades
Main defect types and mechanism
Trailing edge 
crackingLigh tning 
damageCorrosion 
contaminationIcingDelamina
tionMain detection methods
Strain 
detectionVisual 
detectionAcoustic emission 
detectionThermal imaging 
detectionUltrasonic 
detectionVibration 
detectionAcoustic 
detection
Comparison and 
analysisConclusions
Figure 3. Framework of the present study.
2. Main Defect Types and Mechanism
There are two main reasons for the damage to wind turbine blades. On the one hand,
the wind turbine is in a harsh external environment, and the damage faults are directly
caused by external factors, such as strong wind, rain or snow, salt fog, lightning strike,
freezing, sandstorm, insects, etc. The other is the invisible defects caused by process
problems in the technology of man-made manufacturing. These invisible defects are
subject to repeated high loads and harsh external environments during the installation
and operation of the wind turbine. The gradual expansion of invisible defects can lead
to damage. Due to the complexity of the blade material and structure, each damage type
may be caused by a combination of causes. Different defects in the production process and
different operating conditions will cause different damage types. Therefore, the typical
damage types and main damage mechanisms will be reviewed below.
2.1. Trailing Edge Cracking
The main manufacturing materials of wind turbine blades are glass ﬁber-reinforced
polymer (GFRP) and carbon ﬁber-reinforced polymer (CFRP). The two half shells of the
blade, which are made of these two materials, are bonded to form a complete blade. The
trailing edge of the wind turbine blade is the area where the two half shells are bonded.
There are many damage modes in this area, and cracking is the main damage mode, which
is mainly divided into a longitudinal crack and transverse crack. The longitudinal crack at
the trailing edge refers to the crack consistent with the length direction of the blade [ 12],
as shown in Figure 4. Such cracks mainly occur at the root and tip of the blade. The
longitudinal crack at the trailing edge of the tip is mainly due to a reduction in the thickness
of the shell, resulting in a reduction in the stiffness of the blade. This low stiffness leads to
increased blade loading, resulting in higher shear stress on the shell and bonding material
at the tip. This may be a major cause of the cracking at the tip of the trailing edge, while the
longitudinal crack at the root trailing edge may be mainly due to the high stress caused by
the geometric changes and fatigue load in these areas [13,14].
The transverse crack at the trailing edge is a crack perpendicular to the length of the
blade, as shown in Figure 5. Some of these simple transverse cracks are only on one side of
the blade. It may be due to the fact that one side of the blade needs to be polished in order
to eliminate the asymmetry between the two shells of the blade during the manufacturing
process, which leads to a reduction in glass ﬁber on one side, and this kind of crack occurs
under the high load or stall of the blade. There is also a transverse crack that runs through
the shell of the trailing edge of the blade in two measurements. This crack may have slowly
penetrated the other side of the blade from the initial side. It is also due to the high load in
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 5 of 31
this area. Such a crack is relatively dangerous because it completely cuts off the high load
area of the trailing edge [15].
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  5 of 32  
 the shell, resulting in a  reduc tion in the stiffness of the blade. This low stiffness leads to 
increased blade loading, resulting in higher shear stress on the shell and bonding material 
at the tip. This may be a major cause of the crack ing at the tip of the trailing edge, while 
the lon gitudinal crack at the root trailing edge may be mainly due to the high stress caused 
by the geometric changes and fatigue load in these areas [ 13,14]. 
 
Figure 4. Longitudinal cracks found on the trailing edge of a wind turbine blade . 
The transverse crack at the trailing edge is a crack perpendicular to the length of the 
blade, as shown in Figure 5. Some of these simple transverse cracks are only on one side 
of the blade. It may be due to the fact that one side of the blade needs to be polished in 
order to eliminate the asymmetry between the two shells of the blade during the manu-
facturing process, which leads to a  reduction in glass fiber on one side, and this kind of 
crack occurs under the high load or stall of the blade. There is also  a transverse crack that 
runs through the shell of the trailing edge of the blade in two measurements. This crack may have slowly penetrated the other side of the blade from the initial side. It is also due to the high load in this area. Such a crack is re latively dangerous because it completely 
cuts off the high load area of the trailing edge [ 15]. 
 
Figure 5. Transverse cracks found on the trailing edge of a wind turbine blade . 
2.2. Lightning Damage  
Although there is already an IEC61400- 24 lightning prote ction standard for wind tur-
bine systems, wind turbines with lightning protection systems are still subject to lightning strikes. The damage caused by lightning to the blades depends to a great extent on the material of the blades. Studies have shown that t he use of carbon fiber -reinforced polymer 
(CFRP ) for wind turbine blades makes them highly sensitive to lightning [16 –18]. Most 
Figure 4. Longitudinal cracks found on the trailing edge of a wind turbine blade.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  5 of 32  
 the shell, resulting in a  reduc tion in the stiffness of the blade. This low stiffness leads to 
increased blade loading, resulting in higher shear stress on the shell and bonding material 
at the tip. This may be a major cause of the crack ing at the tip of the trailing edge, while 
the lon gitudinal crack at the root trailing edge may be mainly due to the high stress caused 
by the geometric changes and fatigue load in these areas [ 13,14]. 
 
Figure 4. Longitudinal cracks found on the trailing edge of a wind turbine blade . 
The transverse crack at the trailing edge is a crack perpendicular to the length of the 
blade, as shown in Figure 5. Some of these simple transverse cracks are only on one side 
of the blade. It may be due to the fact that one side of the blade needs to be polished in 
order to eliminate the asymmetry between the two shells of the blade during the manu-
facturing process, which leads to a  reduction in glass fiber on one side, and this kind of 
crack occurs under the high load or stall of the blade. There is also  a transverse crack that 
runs through the shell of the trailing edge of the blade in two measurements. This crack may have slowly penetrated the other side of the blade from the initial side. It is also due to the high load in this area. Such a crack is re latively dangerous because it completely 
cuts off the high load area of the trailing edge [ 15]. 
 
Figure 5. Transverse cracks found on the trailing edge of a wind turbine blade . 
2.2. Lightning Damage  
Although there is already an IEC61400- 24 lightning prote ction standard for wind tur-
bine systems, wind turbines with lightning protection systems are still subject to lightning strikes. The damage caused by lightning to the blades depends to a great extent on the material of the blades. Studies have shown that t he use of carbon fiber -reinforced polymer 
(CFRP ) for wind turbine blades makes them highly sensitive to lightning [16 –18]. Most 
Figure 5. Transverse cracks found on the trailing edge of a wind turbine blade.
2.2. Lightning Damage
Although there is already an IEC61400-24 lightning protection standard for wind tur-
bine systems, wind turbines with lightning protection systems are still subject to lightning
strikes. The damage caused by lightning to the blades depends to a great extent on the
material of the blades. Studies have shown that the use of carbon ﬁber-reinforced polymer
(CFRP) for wind turbine blades makes them highly sensitive to lightning [ 16–18]. Most
onshore wind farms are built on relatively remote, high ridges, which are rich in wind
resources but also increase the risk of lightning strikes on wind turbines; this is because
higher ridges are mostly made up of rocks or soils with high electrical resistance [ 19]. The
current lightning protection system for wind turbines uses top metal receptors to momen-
tarily introduce strong currents underground. Soils with high resistance on ridges, on the
other hand, can make it impossible for large impulse voltages to rush into the ground,
which will cause blade damage. More than 88% of the lightning attachments occur within
1 m of the outermost tip, as shown in Figure 6.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 6 of 31
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  6 of 32  
 onshore wind farms are built on relatively remote, high ridges, which are rich in wind 
resources but also increase the risk of lightning strikes on wind turbines ; this is b ecause 
higher ridges are mostly made up of rocks or soils with high electrical resistance [ 19]. The 
current lightning protection system for wind turbines uses top metal receptors to momen-
tarily introduce strong currents underground. Soils with high resistance on ridges, on the 
other hand, can make it impossible for large impulse voltages to rush into the ground, which will cause blade damage. More than 88% of the lightning attachments occur within 
1 m of the oute rmost tip, as shown in Figure 6.  
 
Figure 6. Holes in wind turbine blades caused by lightning strikes . 
The essence of lightning is caused by the breakdown of a medium of air between a 
cloud and the ground or between a cloud and a cloud. The negative charge  accumulated 
at the bottom of a thunderstorm cloud forms a strong electric field with the positive charge 
generated by the ground. As the charge of a thunderstorm cloud accumulates, it dis-
charges to the ground and travels along the air [20,21]. When the ti p of the discharge 
reaches a certain distance from the wind turbine blade, a strong electric field is induced 
with the metal acceptor of the lightning protection system installed in the blade, as shown 
in Point P in Figure 7. When the air at this distance reaches the breakdown threshold, the 
blades will also emit leads in an attempt to capture the tip of the discharge. Charge neu-
tralization occurs in a short time and forms a circuit that forms lightning. Great thermal 
shock from lightning -induced arcs will cause blade damage [ 22,23]. Contaminated areas 
on the surface of blades made of GFRP composite materials (e.g., humidity, dirt, salt, in-sects, etc.) can also become receptors under a sufficient electric field [ 19,23]. 
 
Figure 7. Lead development process d iagram for when lightning strikes wind turbine blades . 
Figure 6. Holes in wind turbine blades caused by lightning strikes.
The essence of lightning is caused by the breakdown of a medium of air between a
cloud and the ground or between a cloud and a cloud. The negative charge accumulated at
the bottom of a thunderstorm cloud forms a strong electric ﬁeld with the positive charge
generated by the ground. As the charge of a thunderstorm cloud accumulates, it discharges
to the ground and travels along the air [ 20,21]. When the tip of the discharge reaches a
certain distance from the wind turbine blade, a strong electric ﬁeld is induced with the
metal acceptor of the lightning protection system installed in the blade, as shown in Point
P in Figure 7. When the air at this distance reaches the breakdown threshold, the blades
will also emit leads in an attempt to capture the tip of the discharge. Charge neutralization
occurs in a short time and forms a circuit that forms lightning. Great thermal shock from
lightning-induced arcs will cause blade damage [ 22,23]. Contaminated areas on the surface
of blades made of GFRP composite materials (e.g., humidity, dirt, salt, insects, etc.) can also
become receptors under a sufﬁcient electric ﬁeld [19,23].
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  6 of 32  
 onshore wind farms are built on relatively remote, high ridges, which are rich in wind 
resources but also increase the risk of lightning strikes on wind turbines ; this is b ecause 
higher ridges are mostly made up of rocks or soils with high electrical resistance [ 19]. The 
current lightning protection system for wind turbines uses top metal receptors to momen-
tarily introduce strong currents underground. Soils with high resistance on ridges, on the 
other hand, can make it impossible for large impulse voltages to rush into the ground, which will cause blade damage. More than 88% of the lightning attachments occur within 
1 m of the oute rmost tip, as shown in Figure 6.  
 
Figure 6. Holes in wind turbine blades caused by lightning strikes . 
The essence of lightning is caused by the breakdown of a medium of air between a 
cloud and the ground or between a cloud and a cloud. The negative charge  accumulated 
at the bottom of a thunderstorm cloud forms a strong electric field with the positive charge 
generated by the ground. As the charge of a thunderstorm cloud accumulates, it dis-
charges to the ground and travels along the air [20,21]. When the ti p of the discharge 
reaches a certain distance from the wind turbine blade, a strong electric field is induced 
with the metal acceptor of the lightning protection system installed in the blade, as shown 
in Point P in Figure 7. When the air at this distance reaches the breakdown threshold, the 
blades will also emit leads in an attempt to capture the tip of the discharge. Charge neu-
tralization occurs in a short time and forms a circuit that forms lightning. Great thermal 
shock from lightning -induced arcs will cause blade damage [ 22,23]. Contaminated areas 
on the surface of blades made of GFRP composite materials (e.g., humidity, dirt, salt, in-sects, etc.) can also become receptors under a sufficient electric field [ 19,23]. 
 
Figure 7. Lead development process d iagram for when lightning strikes wind turbine blades . 
Figure 7. Lead development process diagram for when lightning strikes wind turbine blades.
2.3. Corrosion Contamination at Leading Edge
Corrosion and contamination at the leading edge of wind turbine blades is one of the
key problems in wind power production, as shown in Figure 8. Erosion and contamination
at the leading edge of the blade results in an increase in the resistance coefﬁcient and a
corresponding decrease in lift coefﬁcient, which reduce the generation of electricity. Studies
have shown that corrosion contamination on the leading edge of blades can reduce the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 7 of 31
annual energy production (AEP) by 2% to 3.7% [ 24]. Severely eroded blades result in AEP
up to 25% [ 25]. The AEP of heavily contaminated blades is reduced by 10–13% [ 26]. Noise is
also generated. The degree of corrosion and contamination of wind turbine blades depends
on environmental conditions such as temperature, humidity, pollutants in the atmosphere,
and wind speed. Studies have shown that blade erosion and contamination results in the
most signiﬁcant losses at lower wind speeds, while little or no power loss is achieved at
higher wind speeds than the rated ones [27].
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  7 of 32  
 2.3. Corrosion Contamination at Leading Edge  
Corrosion and contamination at the leading edge of wind turbine blades is one of the 
key problems in wind power production, as shown in Figure 8. Erosion an d contamina-
tion at the leading edge of the blade results in an increase in the resistance coefficient and 
a corresponding decrease in lift coefficient, which reduce the generation of electricity. 
Studies have shown that corrosion contamination on the leadi ng edge of blades can re-
duce the annual energy production  (AEP) by 2% to 3.7% [ 24]. Severely eroded blades re-
sult in AEP up to 25% [ 25]. The AEP of heavily contaminated blades is reduced by 10 –13% 
[26]. Noise is also generated. The degree of corrosion and contamination of wind turbine 
blades depends on environmental conditions such as temperature, humidity, pollutants 
in the atmosphere , and wind speed. Studies have shown that blade erosion and contami-
nation results in the most significant losses at lower wind speeds, while little or no power 
loss is achieved at higher wind speeds than the rated ones [ 27]. 
 
Figure 8. Corrosion pollution of a wind turbine blade ’s leading edge . 
Front edge corrosion contamination is a complex process. The main r eason is that 
raindrops, hail, sand particles, etc.,  repeatedly hit the leading edge of blades, together with 
environmental conditions such as insects, dust, salt (corrosion of salt mist of offshore blower) , and so on. Large droplets of rain hit the leading edge of the blade and generate 
pressure waves on the surface. These pressure waves propagate in the material of the blade and begin to cause fatigue, cracking, and surface roughening of the blade surface. 
As the density of the pit increases, a groove will eventually form  [28,29]. Other large and 
hard particulates, such as hail and gravel, have high kinetic energy when impacting the leading edge of the blade. Especially in areas close to the tip of the blade where the speed 
is very fast, the erosion of the  blade surface is a direct result. In severe cases, delamination 
and cracking will occur, which will reduce the structural stability of the blades. B lade con-
tamination caused by insects occurs mainly in areas with low humidity and wind speed 
and temperatur es of 10 degrees C elsius or higher because th ese are favorable conditions  
for insect survival [ 27]. Additionally, chemicals such as salts and acids in rain or sea air 
will accelerate the corrosion of the blades, because they can interact chemically with th e 
coating material [28,30]. 
2.4. Icing  
The icing of wind turbine blades is also an issue of great concern. Because wind tur-
bine blades are very precise aerodynamic components, even slight icing can cause slight 
changes in blade shape, which increases the friction coefficient and creates turbulence ; 
ultimately , the aerodynamic performance of the blades is affected, resulting in an impact 
on power  generation, A research project analyzed 517 wind turbines that produced 
682 MW and discovered that in 29 months there was a loss of 18,966 MWh of the total 
Figure 8. Corrosion pollution of a wind turbine blade’s leading edge.
Front edge corrosion contamination is a complex process. The main reason is that
raindrops, hail, sand particles, etc., repeatedly hit the leading edge of blades, together
with environmental conditions such as insects, dust, salt (corrosion of salt mist of offshore
blower), and so on. Large droplets of rain hit the leading edge of the blade and generate
pressure waves on the surface. These pressure waves propagate in the material of the
blade and begin to cause fatigue, cracking, and surface roughening of the blade surface.
As the density of the pit increases, a groove will eventually form [ 28,29]. Other large and
hard particulates, such as hail and gravel, have high kinetic energy when impacting the
leading edge of the blade. Especially in areas close to the tip of the blade where the speed
is very fast, the erosion of the blade surface is a direct result. In severe cases, delamination
and cracking will occur, which will reduce the structural stability of the blades. Blade
contamination caused by insects occurs mainly in areas with low humidity and wind speed
and temperatures of 10 degrees Celsius or higher because these are favorable conditions
for insect survival [ 27]. Additionally, chemicals such as salts and acids in rain or sea air
will accelerate the corrosion of the blades, because they can interact chemically with the
coating material [28,30].
2.4. Icing
The icing of wind turbine blades is also an issue of great concern. Because wind
turbine blades are very precise aerodynamic components, even slight icing can cause slight
changes in blade shape, which increases the friction coefﬁcient and creates turbulence;
ultimately, the aerodynamic performance of the blades is affected, resulting in an impact on
power generation, A research project analyzed 517 wind turbines that produced 682 MW
and discovered that in 29 months there was a loss of 18,966 MWh of the total produced
power because of turbine blades icing [ 31,32]. Because ice can increase the drag coefﬁcient
of the blades, the noise generated by the blades is also higher than normal operating levels.
Icing causes an imbalance in the mass of each blade and leads to irregular vibration. When
this irregular vibration exceeds a certain threshold value, the blades will fatigue and break.
Because the blades themselves become brittle in cold weather, this irregular vibration
increases the risk of blade breakage. In addition, if the frozen blades are still running,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 8 of 31
the broken blades will be thrown out at a high speed, which brings great safety hazards
to nearby residents and facilities. So, it is very important to detect ice and start de-icing
on time.
The icing on wind turbine blades depends on temperature, humidity, air density, wind
speed, and other variables. Ice characteristics are inﬂuenced by different parameters in ISO
12494, 2001 [ 33]. Different environments produce different ice types. The most common
type of icing on wind turbine blades is frost, which is dense and very brittle. Because of
the velocity of the incident. This ice ﬁrst appears at the leading edge of the blade and then
gradually covers the rest of the blade, as shown in Figure 9. Twenty percent of wind farms
are located at high altitudes, where populations are scarce but there are abundant wind
resources [ 34]; however, these areas have very strong wind and high cold air density, which
poses a great challenge to the anti-icing and de-icing of wind turbine blades [35].
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 32  
 produced power because of turbine blades icing  [31,32]. Because ice can increase the drag 
coefficient of the blades, the noise generated by the blades is also higher than normal op-
erating levels. Icing causes an imbalance in the mass of each blade and leads to irregular 
vibration. When this irregular vibration exceeds a certain threshold value, the blades will 
fatigue  and break . Because the blades themselves become brittle in cold weather, this ir-
regular vibration increases the risk of blade breakage. I n addition, if the frozen blades are 
still running, the broken blades will be thrown out at a high speed, which brings great 
safety hazards to nearby residents and facilities. So , it is very important to detect  ice and 
start de-icing on time.  
The icing on wind turbine blades depends on temperature, humidity, air density, 
wind speed, and other variables. Ice characteristics are influenced by different parameters 
in ISO 12494, 2001 [33]. Different environments produce different ice types. The most com-
mon type  of icing on wind turbine blades is frost, which is dense and very brittle. Because 
of the velocity of the incident . This ice first appears at the leading edge of the blade and 
then gradually covers the rest of the blade, as shown in Figure 9 . Twen ty percent of wind 
farms are located at high altitudes,  where population s are scarce but there are abundant 
wind resources [ 34]; however, these areas have very strong wind and high cold air den-
sity, which poses a great challenge to the anti- icing and de -icing of w ind turbine blades 
[35]. 
  
Figure 9. Ice on wind turbine blades . 
2.5. Delamination  
The manufacturing materials of wind turbine blades are composite materials. In the 
composite material, the bonding may  not be good or there could be areas without bond-
ing, which are prone to delamination defects. Under these  operating conditions, the wind 
turbine blade will bear a high aerodynamic load, which will make the blade bend. Delam-ination may reduce the critical buckling load of the blade and reduce the overall stiffness 
and strength of the blade [ 36]. Delamination triggers different buckling modes . If the de-
lamination is near the outer or inner surface of the blade, it may cause local buckling; i f 
the delamination is near the center of the blade laminate, it will cause overall buckling, as 
shown in Figure 10. Buckling will reduce the strength of th e blade, which poses varying 
degrees of danger to the structure. However, when the combined effect of local buckling and delamination reaches a certain degree, the blade will suddenly break [ 37,38]. 
  
Figure 10. Local and global buckling modes for layering . 
Figure 9. Ice on wind turbine blades.
2.5. Delamination
The manufacturing materials of wind turbine blades are composite materials. In
the composite material, the bonding may not be good or there could be areas without
bonding, which are prone to delamination defects. Under these operating conditions, the
wind turbine blade will bear a high aerodynamic load, which will make the blade bend.
Delamination may reduce the critical buckling load of the blade and reduce the overall
stiffness and strength of the blade [ 36]. Delamination triggers different buckling modes. If
the delamination is near the outer or inner surface of the blade, it may cause local buckling;
if the delamination is near the center of the blade laminate, it will cause overall buckling,
as shown in Figure 10. Buckling will reduce the strength of the blade, which poses varying
degrees of danger to the structure. However, when the combined effect of local buckling
and delamination reaches a certain degree, the blade will suddenly break [37,38].
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 32  
 produced power because of turbine blades icing  [31,32]. Because ice can increase the drag 
coefficient of the blades, the noise generated by the blades is also higher than normal op-
erating levels. Icing causes an imbalance in the mass of each blade and leads to irregular 
vibration. When this irregular vibration exceeds a certain threshold value, the blades will 
fatigue  and break . Because the blades themselves become brittle in cold weather, this ir-
regular vibration increases the risk of blade breakage. I n addition, if the frozen blades are 
still running, the broken blades will be thrown out at a high speed, which brings great 
safety hazards to nearby residents and facilities. So , it is very important to detect  ice and 
start de-icing on time.  
The icing on wind turbine blades depends on temperature, humidity, air density, 
wind speed, and other variables. Ice characteristics are influenced by different parameters 
in ISO 12494, 2001 [33]. Different environments produce different ice types. The most com-
mon type  of icing on wind turbine blades is frost, which is dense and very brittle. Because 
of the velocity of the incident . This ice first appears at the leading edge of the blade and 
then gradually covers the rest of the blade, as shown in Figure 9 . Twen ty percent of wind 
farms are located at high altitudes,  where population s are scarce but there are abundant 
wind resources [ 34]; however, these areas have very strong wind and high cold air den-
sity, which poses a great challenge to the anti- icing and de -icing of w ind turbine blades 
[35]. 
  
Figure 9. Ice on wind turbine blades . 
2.5. Delamination  
The manufacturing materials of wind turbine blades are composite materials. In the 
composite material, the bonding may  not be good or there could be areas without bond-
ing, which are prone to delamination defects. Under these  operating conditions, the wind 
turbine blade will bear a high aerodynamic load, which will make the blade bend. Delam-ination may reduce the critical buckling load of the blade and reduce the overall stiffness 
and strength of the blade [ 36]. Delamination triggers different buckling modes . If the de-
lamination is near the outer or inner surface of the blade, it may cause local buckling; i f 
the delamination is near the center of the blade laminate, it will cause overall buckling, as 
shown in Figure 10. Buckling will reduce the strength of th e blade, which poses varying 
degrees of danger to the structure. However, when the combined effect of local buckling and delamination reaches a certain degree, the blade will suddenly break [ 37,38]. 
  
Figure 10. Local and global buckling modes for layering . 
Figure 10. Local and global buckling modes for layering.
The delamination defect of the blade is usually caused by limitations during the
manufacturing process, areas with a high stress concentration (such as hole and notch)
around the discontinuous part of the structure, and/or impact damage during the process
of production, transportation, and maintenance, etc. In order to avoid large delamination
defects of wind turbine blades, the quality control of the blades is usually carried out
through visual inspection or ultrasonic scanning after production.
2.6. Other Defects
With the increasing service time of wind turbines, the surface of wind turbine blades
will gradually show slight cracks. These cracks usually expand with the service time of the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 9 of 31
wind turbine and the load of the wind turbine. If it is serious, it will lead to the fracture
of the blade. Generally, a strong wind will make the blade bear complex and changeable
high-strength loads, resulting in cracks and damage from the root, surface, and trailing
edge of the blade, as shown in Figure 11. Therefore, the complex and changeable load is a
direct factor affecting the service life of wind turbines.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  9 of 32  
 The delamination defect of the blade is usually caused by limitation s during  the man-
ufacturing process, area s with a high stress concentration (such as hole and notch) around 
the discontinuous part of the structure, and/or impact damage during  the process of pro-
duction, transportation, and maintenance, etc. In order to avoid large delamination de-
fects of wind turbine blades, the quality control of the blades is usually carried out through 
visual inspection or ultrasonic scanning after production.  
2.6. Other Defects  
With the increasing service time of wind turbines, the surface of wind turbine blades 
will gradually show  slight cracks. These cracks usually expand with the service time of 
the wind turbine and the load of the wind turbine. If it is serious, it will lead to the fracture of the blade. Generally, a strong wind will make the blade bear complex and changeable 
high-strength loads, resulting in cracks and damage from the root, surface,  and trailing 
edge of the blade, as shown in Figure 11. Therefore, the complex and changeable load is a 
direct factor affecting the service life of wind turbines.  
 
Figure 11. Differe nt types of cracks . 
3. Main Detection Methods  
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is mainly to find the damage to blades 
and thus potential safety hazards in time, avoid serious catastrophic accidents,  and ensure 
the safe and healthy operation of wind turbines. Timely maintenance for faults and po-
tential safety hazards can greatly reduce the cost of operation and maintenance, reduce downtime, improve power- generation efficiency , and reduce economic losses. At present, 
the methods of detecting damage to  wind turbine blade ’s structure and material mainly 
include strain monitoring, acoustic emission monitoring, ultrasonic monitoring,  vibration 
monitoring, thermal imaging monitoring, machine vision monitoring,  and so on. This sec-
tion will comprehensively review the monitoring principle s and research progress of each 
monitoring technology, and will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of each mon-
itoring technology in detail.  
3.1. Strain Monitoring  
3.1.1. General  
Blade strain monitoring is a relatively mature and economical monitoring technol-
ogy. When the wind turbine blade is running, it will deform to a certain extent under the 
action of external force. When the deformation of a local position of the blade exceed s the 
historical threshold of deformation, we can judge that there may be damage there. The 
Figure 11. Different types of cracks.
3. Main Detection Methods
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is mainly to ﬁnd the damage to blades
and thus potential safety hazards in time, avoid serious catastrophic accidents, and ensure
the safe and healthy operation of wind turbines. Timely maintenance for faults and
potential safety hazards can greatly reduce the cost of operation and maintenance, reduce
downtime, improve power-generation efﬁciency, and reduce economic losses. At present,
the methods of detecting damage to wind turbine blade’s structure and material mainly
include strain monitoring, acoustic emission monitoring, ultrasonic monitoring, vibration
monitoring, thermal imaging monitoring, machine vision monitoring, and so on. This
section will comprehensively review the monitoring principles and research progress of
each monitoring technology, and will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of each
monitoring technology in detail.
3.1. Strain Monitoring
3.1.1. General
Blade strain monitoring is a relatively mature and economical monitoring technology.
When the wind turbine blade is running, it will deform to a certain extent under the
action of external force. When the deformation of a local position of the blade exceeds the
historical threshold of deformation, we can judge that there may be damage there. The
strain sensor can monitor the micro changes of blade deformation. There are two kinds
of strain monitoring sensors for wind turbine blades. One is the resistance strain gauge.
The strain gauge is composed of a plastic ﬁlm (15–16 m) as the base and a sensitive
grid (3–6 m) made of thin metal foil on it. When this kind of strain gauge is attached
to the surface of the blade shell, when the position of the strain gauge is deformed, the
metal foil sensitive grid of the strain gauge will be deformed, and its electric resistance
will change. The change in resistivity will produce voltage ﬂuctuation. This ﬂuctuation
is measured by a special instrument and converted into the strain value of the measuring
point. Thus, the monitoring of blade fatigue, stress concentration, and damage can be
realized by monitoring the strain value [ 39,40]. Another strain gauge is based on the ﬁber
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 10 of 31
Bragg grating (FBG). FBG sensors are generally composed of Bragg grating glass ﬁbers
with a diameter of no more than 4–9 microns. When light propagates through a grating,
there is little signal attenuation or signal change. When FBG is embedded into the structure
of the blade, the optical characteristics of the optical ﬁber sensor will change when the
blade is subjected to strain change or stress concentration. This change is very sensitive,
thereby monitoring the damage to blades [41–43]. The principle is shown in Figure 12.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  10 of 32  
 strain sensor can monitor the micro changes of blade deformation. There are two kinds of 
strain monitoring sensors for wind turbine blades. One is the resistance st rain gauge. The 
strain gauge is composed of a plastic film  (15–16 μm) as the base and a sensitive grid ( 3–
6 μm) made of thin metal foil on it. When this kind of strain gauge is attached to the sur-
face of the blade shell, when the position of the strain gau ge is deformed, the metal foil 
sensitive grid of the strain gauge will be deformed , and its electric resistance will change. 
The change in  resistivity will produce voltage fluctuation. This fluctuation is measured by 
a special instrument and converted into  the strain value of the measuring point. Thus, the 
monitoring of blade fatigue, stress concentration, and damage can be realized by moni-toring the strain value  [39,40]. Another strain gauge is based on the f iber Bragg grating 
(FBG). FBG sensors are generally composed of Bragg grating glass fibers with a diameter of no more than 4 –9 microns. When light propagates through a grating, there is little signal 
attenuation or signal change. When FBG is embedded into the structure of the blade, the 
optical ch aracteristics of the optical fiber sensor will change when the blade is subjected 
to strain change or stress concentration. This change is very sensitive , thereby  monitor ing 
the damage to blades [41 –43]. The principle is shown in Figure 12.  
 
Figure 12. Schematic diagram of fiber Bragg grating (FBG) . 
3.1.2. Research Progress  
Jorgenson et al. Installed more than 30 resistance strain gauges on wind turbine 
blades to measure the static strain distribution. The results show that there are high strain 
values and  nonlinear characteristics at the position of blade damage [ 44]. Based on the 
strain field pattern recognition and nonlinear detection methods, Sierra -Peréz et al . em-
bedded an optical fiber sensor into the blade structure. The measured values obtained 
from the different sensors were used to infer the strain field, and the defects and nonlinear 
characteristics of the blade were detected [ 39]. Nobuotakeda embedded plastic optical fi-
ber (POF) and fiber Bragg grating (FBG) sensors in to the  composite laminates t o detect 
and monitor the transverse crack evolution of composite laminates. The results show that 
the changes in optical power loss and reflected optical power spectrum are important in-
dicators of crack density [ 45]. Jingzhe Wu et al. proposed the deployme nt of a large flexi-
ble strain gauge network and proposed a strain derivation algorithm. The algorithm has 
good performance in reconstructing the surface strain map and can be applied to the state evaluation of wind turbine blades in real time [ 46]. Shaohua tian et al. proposed a new 
non- baseline blade damage -detection method using the fiber Bragg grating (FBG) and 
proposed feature information fusion (FIF) method s to obtain the globally optimal decision 
of damage detection. The damage can be accurately detect ed by global optimal decisions 
[47]. Simon Laflamme proposed a method to convert the strain on the blade surface into 
measurable capacitance change using a low -cost, soft, elastic capacitor. Numerical simu-
lation shows that the data -driven algorithm based on the distributed strain data can prove 
the existence and location of damage and rank its severity [48]. Kyunghyun Lee et al. 
Figure 12. Schematic diagram of ﬁber Bragg grating (FBG).
3.1.2. Research Progress
Jorgenson et al. Installed more than 30 resistance strain gauges on wind turbine
blades to measure the static strain distribution. The results show that there are high
strain values and nonlinear characteristics at the position of blade damage [ 44]. Based on
the strain ﬁeld pattern recognition and nonlinear detection methods, Sierra-Per éz et al.
embedded an optical ﬁber sensor into the blade structure. The measured values obtained
from the different sensors were used to infer the strain ﬁeld, and the defects and nonlinear
characteristics of the blade were detected [ 39]. Nobuotakeda embedded plastic optical ﬁber
(POF) and ﬁber Bragg grating (FBG) sensors into the composite laminates to detect and
monitor the transverse crack evolution of composite laminates. The results show that the
changes in optical power loss and reﬂected optical power spectrum are important indicators
of crack density [ 45]. Jingzhe Wu et al. proposed the deployment of a large ﬂexible strain
gauge network and proposed a strain derivation algorithm. The algorithm has good
performance in reconstructing the surface strain map and can be applied to the state
evaluation of wind turbine blades in real time [ 46]. Shaohuatian et al. proposed a new non-
baseline blade damage-detection method using the ﬁber Bragg grating (FBG) and proposed
feature information fusion (FIF) methods to obtain the globally optimal decision of damage
detection. The damage can be accurately detected by global optimal decisions [ 47]. Simon
Laﬂamme proposed a method to convert the strain on the blade surface into measurable
capacitance change using a low-cost, soft, elastic capacitor. Numerical simulation shows
that the data-driven algorithm based on the distributed strain data can prove the existence
and location of damage and rank its severity [ 48]. Kyunghyun Lee et al. proposed a
deﬂection monitoring system installed on wind turbine blades. The system is based on the
strain estimation algorithm and objective function to realize the optimal arrangement of
sensors and monitor the vibration of wind turbine blades [ 49]. Aihara et al. designed a
blade-vibration monitoring system. The system uses a strain gauge installed at the root
of the blade to calculate and measure the deﬂection of the blade in real time according
to the monitored stress [ 50]. Binrongwen et al. developed a ﬂoating wind turbine blade
load online monitoring system based on a ﬁber Bragg grating (FBG) sensor and ﬁber optic
rotary joint (forj) and veriﬁed its feasibility and reliability [ 51]. Ginu Rajan proposed to use
different types of optical ﬁber optical sensors (FOS) to monitor the strain and temperature
changes of wind turbine blades [ 52]. Ting-Yu Hsu et al. proposed a local ﬂexibility method
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 11 of 31
for locating blade damage [ 53]. Researchers also developed an algorithm for detecting blade
damage using an FBG-based strain gauge [ 54], and several other studies have successfully
used strain monitoring for wind turbine blade condition monitoring [55–58].
3.1.3. Analysis of Advantages and Disadvantages
The resistance strain gauge is widely used because it can easily monitor the small
strain changes at each position of the blade and has a low cost. However, the resistance
strain gauge needs to select the point to be detected in advance, and then arrange the strain
gauge to detect the strain change at this point. It is difﬁcult to directly realize the global
damage detection of the blade. At least two wires are required to arrange a strain gauge.
The arrangement of a large number of strain gauges will be a very large project and not
realistic [ 39]. The resistance strain sensor attached to the blade surface has difﬁculty in
detecting the damage inside the blade [ 59]. Furthermore, for long-term monitoring, the
resistance strain gauge fails due to creep, temperature, and other reasons [ 60]. On the
other hand, the detection accuracy of the strain gauge is easily affected by electromagnetic
interference. Compared with a resistance strain gauge, FBG is favored by more and more
people, having fewer connecting wires, anti-electromagnetic interference, anti-fatigue, high
sensitivity, and less prone to failure [ 42]. The FBG-based strain gauge can be embedded
into the material structure of the blade and can monitor the strain changes inside and
outside the blade material under working conditions [ 61,62]. Although optical ﬁber strain
detection can measure the many dynamic parameters of blades, it is not easy to directly
identify the damage to blades [ 51,63–65]. On the other hand, the optical ﬁber strain gauge
is embedded in the material of the blade, which puts forward higher requirements for the
manufacturing process of the blade and affects the structure of the blade. Especially for
wind turbine blades with a larger size, this impact cannot be ignored. Studies have shown
that the characteristics and geometric parameters of materials will affect the measurement
accuracy of FBG [42]; thus, there remains many challenges in practical application.
3.2. Visual Inspection
3.2.1. General
Visual inspection is a detection technology used in various ﬁelds. Similar to human
eyes, the state information of the blade cracks, scratches, holes, ice, and so on, can be
obtained by taking two-dimensional or three-dimensional images, as shown in Figure 13.
At present, UAVs are mostly used to carry high-deﬁnition shooting equipment to detect
the blades [ 66–71]. With the development of optics and computer technology, visual moni-
toring technology has achieved a leap from static detection to dynamic monitoring [31,72].
Image recognition technology has become an important technology [ 73], and many al-
gorithms have been proposed to extract deformation, cracking, and other features from
two-dimensional or three-dimensional images of blades [ 66,68,74]. With the development
of deep learning, such as SVM and convolutional neural networks (CNN), the technology
of automatically extracting the depth features of the blade damage is becoming more and
more popular [ 75]. Visual measurement technology includes digital image correlation (DIC)
and three-dimensional point tracking (3dpt).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 12 of 31
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  12 of 32  
 more popular [ 75]. Visual measure ment technology includes digital image correlation 
(DIC) and three -dimensional point tracking (3dpt).  
 
Figure 13. Machine vision -based detection . 
3.2.2. Research Progress  
Jay T. Johnson et al. developed a three- dimensional image -measurement system to 
measure the shape change of the wind wing and blade surface displacement change in 
static and fatigue tests [ 76]. Jinshui Yang et al. d eveloped video measurement technology 
for the structural deformation of wind turbine blades during full- scale tests and operation. 
Based on the principle of convergent photogrammetry, the video measurement technol-
ogy restores the three- dimensional blade from the photo, marks the blade with specific 
points, collects the images of these points,  and measur es the positions of these points at 
different angles. Finally, the three -dimensional coordinates of these points are determined 
by triangulation [ 77]. Dayi  Zhang et al. used UAV to conduct remote photographic detec-
tion on a retired blade indoors ; subsequen tly, a 3D reconstruction of the blade was carried 
out through the adaptive path of the UAV, and the damage to the wind turbine blade was 
clearly observed in the texture 3D reconstruction section of the blade [ 78]. M. Akhloufi et 
al. proposed a method to re motely detect and measure the icing of wind turbine blades 
by using a digital camera in a cold climate. Through algorithm development and experi-
ment s on the collected digital images, good results were obtained ; but, the thickness of 
icing could not be obta ined [79]. Peymanpoozesh use d three- dimensional (3D) digital im-
age correlation (DIC) technology to measure quasi- static and cyclic loads on a 5 0 m blade. 
The results show that DIC can accurately provide information on strain distribution and deformation changes during static loading and fatigue loading, which can better under-stand the state of the blade [80]. They also proposed a multi camera measurement system 
for dynamic spatial data stitching using three -dimensional digital image correlation (3D 
DIC) and three -dimensional point tracking (3dpt) to measure the large -area strain and 
displacement of the blade [ 81]. Martin S tokkeland et al. proposed a vision module, which 
enables the UAV to independently calculate the distance from the wind turbine blade and determine the blade position, and detect ed the blade through the Hough transform algo-
rithm and Kalman fil ter algorithm [ 82]. Long Wang, et al. proposed a data -driven frame-
work, which was verified by unmanned active blade images and artificially generated 
images. The results show that the proposed framework can realize the identification and 
location of blade cracks [73]. Sahir Moreno et al. proposed a method based on deep 
Figure 13. Machine vision-based detection.
3.2.2. Research Progress
Jay T. Johnson et al. developed a three-dimensional image-measurement system to
measure the shape change of the wind wing and blade surface displacement change in
static and fatigue tests [ 76]. Jinshui Yang et al. developed video measurement technology
for the structural deformation of wind turbine blades during full-scale tests and operation.
Based on the principle of convergent photogrammetry, the video measurement technology
restores the three-dimensional blade from the photo, marks the blade with speciﬁc points,
collects the images of these points, and measures the positions of these points at different
angles. Finally, the three-dimensional coordinates of these points are determined by
triangulation [ 77]. Dayi Zhang et al. used UAV to conduct remote photographic detection
on a retired blade indoors; subsequently, a 3D reconstruction of the blade was carried out
through the adaptive path of the UAV , and the damage to the wind turbine blade was
clearly observed in the texture 3D reconstruction section of the blade [ 78]. M. Akhlouﬁ et al.
proposed a method to remotely detect and measure the icing of wind turbine blades by
using a digital camera in a cold climate. Through algorithm development and experiments
on the collected digital images, good results were obtained; but, the thickness of icing could
not be obtained [ 79]. Peymanpoozesh used three-dimensional (3D) digital image correlation
(DIC) technology to measure quasi-static and cyclic loads on a 50 m blade. The results
show that DIC can accurately provide information on strain distribution and deformation
changes during static loading and fatigue loading, which can better understand the state
of the blade [ 80]. They also proposed a multi camera measurement system for dynamic
spatial data stitching using three-dimensional digital image correlation (3D DIC) and three-
dimensional point tracking (3dpt) to measure the large-area strain and displacement of the
blade [ 81]. Martin Stokkeland et al. proposed a vision module, which enables the UAV to
independently calculate the distance from the wind turbine blade and determine the blade
position, and detected the blade through the Hough transform algorithm and Kalman ﬁlter
algorithm [ 82]. Long Wang, et al. proposed a data-driven framework, which was veriﬁed
by unmanned active blade images and artiﬁcially generated images. The results show that
the proposed framework can realize the identiﬁcation and location of blade cracks [ 73].
Sahir Moreno et al. proposed a method based on deep learning vision to automatically
analyze and detect blade surface faults (wear and fracture) [ 83]. J. Carr et al. used digital
image correlation (DIC) technology combined with a ﬁnite element model to measure
the displacement of an optical target placed at the speciﬁed position through a three-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 13 of 31
dimensional point tracking method. The two methods are applied to predict the dynamic
strain of the blade under dynamic load. The results show that the static and dynamic strains
measured by DIC are consistent with those measured by conventional strain gauges [ 84].
Rong Wu et al. proposed the optical technology based on three-dimensional digital image
correlation (3D-DIC), obtained the full ﬁeld dynamic parameters of blade displacement
and strain during operation, and detected the relative deformation and fault during blade
operation in a time domain and frequency domain [ 85]. Abhishek Reddy et al. used the
method of deep learning to write the kkeras framework in Python. The neural network
model is trained through the images captured by UAV to realize the classiﬁcation and
detection of different types of blade damage [69].
3.2.3. Analysis of Advantages and Disadvantages
The machine vision inspection method can adequately replace the manual visual
inspection, especially for the manual inspection of offshore wind farms, which has great
risks and high costs. This technology is a non-contact detection method. Three-dimensional
digital image correlation (DIC) can quickly realize the large-area damage detection of the
entire blade structure, and can also capture the dynamic strain of the blade surface when the
blade is running [ 31,72]. This technology has great advantages over strain gauge detection;
the combination of visual inspection and UAV also makes this technology more practical.
However, optical measurement is easily affected by light and weather conditions, and the
use of UAVs also needs to meet certain environmental conditions [ 68]. A large number of
image processing and analysis need more data and computing resources, and the complex
calibration program also limits the further popularization of this technology [ 76,86,87].
It is difﬁcult to detect the damage inside the blade by visual inspection, which is also a
disadvantage of this technology [ 86]. In the future, the keys to this technology is to realize
image acquisition at a higher resolution, have fast and high-precision full-ﬁeld damage
detection, image processing technology, and related algorithms, as well as synchronous
positioning. Better adaptation to the use environment is also an important research direction
in the future.
3.3. Acoustic Emission
3.3.1. General
Acoustic emission is a passive online detection method. In short, the sensor installed on
the blade is used to collect the transient elastic waves emitted from the blade structure and
materials. These transient elastic waves may be emitted due to common blade damage such
as crack propagation and delamination [ 88]. Usually, multiple AE sensors are combined
to build a sensor network. Using these sensors, damage detection and location can be
easily realized. This technology is very sensitive; it can detect transient elastic waves much
smaller than normal sound and record this elastic wave for signal feature extraction. For
example, blind deconvolution separation and ML algorithms are used to extract damage-
related data. Figure 14 is the schematic diagram of the acoustic emission detection. The
important characteristics of a typical AE waveform include rise time, duration, counting,
energy, peak amplitude, and peak frequency [ 89,90]. By extracting these parameters, the
monitoring of blade damage events such as fatigue, stiffness, and cracks of turbine blades
can be realized.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 14 of 31
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  14 of 32  
  
Figure 14. Schematic diagram of acoustic emission detection . 
3.3.2. Research Progress  
Jialin Tang and others monitored a wind turbine blade using acoustic emission tech-
nology simulation of defect growth over a 1 -m rectangular area. The result of the experi-
ment showed the successful detect ion of the growth of the source of the defects caused by 
fatigue damage, using the method of the triangle to analyze the sensor relative time of 
arrival, and successfully determined the location of damage growth . In addition, an un-
supervised pattern recognition m ethod was proposed to characterize the different acous-
tic emission behaviors corresponding to different fracture mechanisms [ 91,92]. D. Xu et al. 
proposed a clustering method for fast searching and discovering density peaks (cfsfdp), 
which realizes the ide ntification of different damage modes through the similarity of AE 
signals. Secondly, a waveform feature extraction method based on wavelet packet decom-
position (WPD) was developed to capture the information contained in the original AE 
signals [93,94]. B. Han et al. u sed acoustic emission technology to evaluate the damage in 
the static load test of wind turbine blades, tried to use a new algorithm with the concept 
of energy contour mapping,  and analyzed the correlation between stress conditions and 
damage identification. The results showed that the acoustic emission was in good agree-
ment with the stress distribution and damage location of  the blades [95]. Dimitrios Za-
rouchas analyzed acoustic emission data based on the frequency method to identify the 
diffe rent damage mechanisms of blades during loading and measured the displacement 
and deformation of blades in combination with digital image technology [ 96]. O. Bouzid, 
et al. proposed an in situ wireless structure state -detection system based on acoustic emi s-
sion (AE) technology. The system used the developed constraint positioning model to ex-
tract the features of the blade damage from the aliased AE signals, which was a new signal 
processing method.  The application of this method in continuous in situ monito ring sys-
tems of blade status of large offshore wind turbines is of great significance [ 97]. Carlos 
Quiterio Gómez Muñoz et al. studied a blade -condition -detection system and a new sig-
nal-processing method, which successfully detect ed and locate d fiber brea kage in wind 
turbine blades by collecting and analyzing acoustic emission data from wind turbine 
blades with three low -cost (MFC) sensors [ 98]. Wei Zhou et al. studied the damage and 
failure process of blades by using acoustic emission (AE) technology. The y found that the 
relative energy, amplitude distribution , and duration of acoustic emission were related to 
the damage process of the sample. The occurrence and propagation of damage was 
proved by locating the linear acoustic emission source [ 99]. Z Bo et al. proposed a new 
method for wind turbine blade fatigue crack identification. The method extracts and ana-
lyzes weak crack characteristics based on the BDS algorithm. The results show that the AE 
signal analysis based on BDS is an appropriate met hod for distinguishing and interpreting 
different fatigue damage states of wind turbine blades [100]. 
Figure 14. Schematic diagram of acoustic emission detection.
3.3.2. Research Progress
Jialin Tang and others monitored a wind turbine blade using acoustic emission technol-
ogy simulation of defect growth over a 1-m rectangular area. The result of the experiment
showed the successful detection of the growth of the source of the defects caused by fatigue
damage, using the method of the triangle to analyze the sensor relative time of arrival,
and successfully determined the location of damage growth. In addition, an unsupervised
pattern recognition method was proposed to characterize the different acoustic emission
behaviors corresponding to different fracture mechanisms [ 91,92]. D. Xu et al. proposed a
clustering method for fast searching and discovering density peaks (cfsfdp), which realizes
the identiﬁcation of different damage modes through the similarity of AE signals. Secondly,
a waveform feature extraction method based on wavelet packet decomposition (WPD)
was developed to capture the information contained in the original AE signals [ 93,94].
B. Han et al. used acoustic emission technology to evaluate the damage in the static load
test of wind turbine blades, tried to use a new algorithm with the concept of energy contour
mapping, and analyzed the correlation between stress conditions and damage identiﬁ-
cation. The results showed that the acoustic emission was in good agreement with the
stress distribution and damage location of the blades [ 95]. Dimitrios Zarouchas analyzed
acoustic emission data based on the frequency method to identify the different damage
mechanisms of blades during loading and measured the displacement and deformation of
blades in combination with digital image technology [ 96]. O. Bouzid, et al. proposed an in
situ wireless structure state-detection system based on acoustic emission (AE) technology.
The system used the developed constraint positioning model to extract the features of the
blade damage from the aliased AE signals, which was a new signal processing method. The
application of this method in continuous in situ monitoring systems of blade status of large
offshore wind turbines is of great signiﬁcance [ 97].Carlos Quiterio G ómez Muñoz et al.
studied a blade-condition-detection system and a new signal-processing method, which
successfully detected and located ﬁber breakage in wind turbine blades by collecting and
analyzing acoustic emission data from wind turbine blades with three low-cost (MFC)
sensors [ 98]. Wei Zhou et al. studied the damage and failure process of blades by using
acoustic emission (AE) technology. They found that the relative energy, amplitude distribu-
tion, and duration of acoustic emission were related to the damage process of the sample.
The occurrence and propagation of damage was proved by locating the linear acoustic
emission source [ 99]. Z Bo et al. proposed a new method for wind turbine blade fatigue
crack identiﬁcation. The method extracts and analyzes weak crack characteristics based
on the BDS algorithm. The results show that the AE signal analysis based on BDS is an
appropriate method for distinguishing and interpreting different fatigue damage states of
wind turbine blades [100].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 15 of 31
3.3.3. Advantages and Disadvantages Analysis
Compared with other non-destructive detection technologies, acoustic emission tech-
nology can realize the dynamic monitoring of blades. Compared with visual monitoring,
acoustic emission can monitor the occurrence of damage in real time and can detect dam-
age to blades earlier and give an early warning [ 101,102]. Acoustic emission monitoring
requires fewer sensors than surface or local strain monitoring of blades to monitor the
health of the entire blade interior and surface and to accurately locate damage [95].
As the blade size becomes larger and larger, the acoustic emission signal tends to fade
during the propagation process. Various noise sources reduce the signal-to-noise ratio of
the acoustic emission signal [ 87]. Acoustic emission sensor location, number of sensors,
and sampling rate directly affect the accuracy of the technology to a certain extent. A
high sampling rate and more sensor arrangement will increase the calculation cost and
economic cost [ 38,101]. Therefore, removing noise pollution, accurately extracting the
acoustic emission signal generated by damage, accurately evaluating the critical area of
the blades, reasonably arranging the position of the acoustic emission sensor, and realizing
reliable acoustic emission data collection and robust data processing under operation are
important research directions of this technology.
3.4. Thermal Imaging Monitoring
3.4.1. General
Thermal imaging monitoring technology is also a non-contact monitoring technology,
which mainly detects the thermodynamic changes on the blade surface. When the blade
is damaged and defective after repeated cyclic loading (such as delamination, cracking,
holes, etc.), the structure of the blade is discontinuous. The heat is locally retained at the
discontinuous position with low thermal conductivity, resulting in the temperature at the
discontinuous position being higher than that at other positions of the blade [ 103]. When
there is a temperature difference on the surface of the blade, this temperature difference
can be captured and visualized by a highly sensitive infrared camera in a relatively suitable
environment, to realize the rapid detection of blade-damage defects [ 104–108]. In addition,
with the increase in the number of cyclic loads, the high strain area inside the blade will
generate heat energy by friction, which allows the engineer to determine the high strain
area of the blade [ 109]. Figure 15 shows the detection and thermal imaging results of the
wind turbine blades using infrared thermal imaging technology.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  15 of 32  
 3.3.3. Advantages and Disadvantages Analysis  
Compared with other non- destructive detection technologies, acoustic emission tech-
nology can realize the dyna mic monitoring of blades. Compared with visual monitoring, 
acoustic emission can monitor the occurrence of damage in real time and can detect dam-
age to blades earlier and give an early warning  [101,102]. Acoustic emission monitoring 
requires fewer sensors than surface or local strain monitoring of blades to monitor the 
health of the entire blade interior and surface and to accurately locate damage [ 95]. 
As the blade size becomes larger and larger, the acoustic emission signal tends to 
fade during the propag ation process. Various noise sources reduce the signal- to-noise ra-
tio of the acoustic emission signal [ 87]. Acoustic emission sensor location, number of sen-
sors, and sampling rate directly affect the accuracy of the technology to a certain extent. A high s ampling rate and more sensor arrangement will increase the calculation cost and 
economic cost  [38,101]. Therefore, removing noise pollution, accurately extracting the 
acoustic emission signal generated by damage, accurately evaluating the critical area of 
the blades, reasonably arranging the position of the acoustic emission sensor, and realiz-
ing reliable acoustic emission data collection and robust data processing under operation are important research directions of this technology.  
3.4. Thermal Imaging Mo nitoring  
3.4.1. General  
Thermal imaging monitoring technology is also a non -contact monitoring technol-
ogy, which mainly detects the thermodynamic changes on the blade surface. When the 
blade is damaged and defective after repeated cyclic loading (such as d elamination, crack-
ing, holes, etc.), the structure of the blade is discontinuous. The heat is locally retained at 
the discontinuous position with low thermal conductivity, resulting in the temperature at 
the discontinuous position being higher than that at  other positions of the blade [ 103]. 
When there is a temperature difference on the surface of the blade, this temperature dif-
ference can be captured and visualized by a highly sensitive infrared camera in a relatively 
suitable environment , to realize the r apid detection of blade -damage defects [104 –108]. In 
addition, with the increase in the number of cyclic loads, the high strain area inside the 
blade will generate heat energy by friction, which allows the engineer to determine the high strain area of the blade [109]. Figure 15 shows the detection and thermal imaging 
results of the wind turbine blades using infrared thermal imaging technology.  
 
Figure 15. Detection of wind turbine blades by infrared thermal imaging technology and thermal 
imaging results . 
Figure 15. Detection of wind turbine blades by infrared thermal imaging technology and thermal
imaging results.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 16 of 31
3.4.2. Research Progress
Xiaoli Li et al. used transmission thermal imaging technology to detect the adhesive
samples of wind turbine blades. The results show that this technology can effectively detect
the adhesion quality of wind turbine blades [ 110]. Tamara Worzewski et al. took the sun
as the excitation heat source, used thermal imaging technology to detect blade damage
and defects, and veriﬁed the similarity between outdoor experiments and numerical
simulation [ 104]. Miguel Lizaranzu et al. used transient active thermal imaging technology
to detect and analyze the defects found in the blades of the wind turbine. The results show
that the experimental results of this technology mainly depend on the resolution of the
thermal imaging camera, heat source, and the required minimum defect size/accuracy
ratio [ 111]. Soonkyu Hwang proposed a continuous line laser thermal imaging technology
and developed a new pixel-tracking and statistical pattern-recognition algorithm, which can
detect the damage to the blade without stopping the wind turbine. Using this technology,
the internal delamination at 1 mm below the blade surface is successfully detected at the
position ten meters away from the wind turbine blade [ 112,113]. Christoph Dollinger uses
thermal imaging ﬂow visualization to non-invasively measure the boundary layer ﬂow
disturbance caused by pollution and erosion of wind turbine blades in operation. The
measurement results can be used to evaluate the annual energy loss caused by leading edge
conditions [ 114]. C. Galleguillos et al. proposed the feasibility study of using UAV system
(UAS) thermal imaging technology in wind turbine blade damage and defect detection,
and developed ﬂight software to process the images online [ 115]. Carlos Quiterio G ómez
Muñoz et al. proposed a method of detecting the icing of wind turbine blades with a
broadband thermal radiometer using remote sensing technology. This method is based
on the drastic emissivity change on the surface when blade icing occurs, and collects the
measured value of radiation temperature to detect the icing of wind turbine blades [ 116].
Hadi Sanati et al. proposed a method called “step phase and amplitude thermal imaging”
to process the thermal image obtained by active thermal imaging. This method applies a
transformation-based algorithm to the step heating and cooling data, which can greatly
improve the image quality and the visibility of internal defects [ 117]. F. Hahn et al. studied
the static and fatigue integrity of cross-section blades under DLR for up to 5 million load
cycles. During the fatigue test, the blade stress distribution was observed by a thermoelastic
stress analysis camera (TSA), and the measured values located the stress concentration that
could not be predicted by ﬁnite element analysis [ 118]. Dutton Ag et al. developed a new
thermoelastic stress analysis technology, which can identify all damage areas in the test
blade, and the signal size is directly proportional to the damage severity. The technology
can also be used to verify the overall stress distribution on the blade surface and detect
developing damage [119].
3.4.3. Analysis of Advantages and Disadvantages
Thermal imaging technology can detect the damage and defects of wind turbine blades
over a large range in a short time [ 111], especially the delamination fault under the blade
surface. Its efﬁciency and accuracy can be comparable to other detection technologies [ 120].
Using this technology avoids the installation of more sensors. Only a high-resolution ther-
mal imaging camera is needed to complete the detection, which reduces the operation and
maintenance cost. However, generally, the temperature change of the damaged position of
the blade is very slow. Thermal imaging technology requires enough heat at the damaged
defect position to be perceived by the thermal imaging camera. Due to the slow develop-
ment of temperature, it is not suitable for early-stage fault detection [ 121]. Thermal imaging
technology has certain requirements for ambient temperature; in other words, the detection
results of the infrared camera are easily affected by the ambient temperature [ 105,106,122].
In addition, the reﬂection and pollution on the blade surface will also interfere with thermal
imaging detection [ 109]. At present, most thermal imaging technologies need to shut down
the wind turbine for detection, which increases the shutdown time and causes certain
economic losses. Therefore, how to reduce external interference and how to carry out
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 17 of 31
thermal imaging detection of wind turbine blades under operating conditions remains
a challenge.
3.5. Ultrasonic Testing
3.5.1. General
Ultrasonic testing technology is a relatively mature technology to detect the defects of
composite and other materials [ 123]. Ultrasonic testing technology is widely used to detect
the internal debonding, delamination, and other defects of wind turbine blade materials.
An elastic wave of more than 20 kHz is introduced into the mechanism of the blade through
a transmitter. The wave propagates along the structure of the blade and passes through or
interacts with the defects (such as delamination, debonding, and crack) to make the wave
change in the propagation process. The second sensor measures the mode changes, such
as propagation, amplitude, phase, time, reﬂection, and attenuation of the elastic wave, to
accurately judge the location and size of the damage [ 90,124]. Figure 16 shows the basic
detection mechanism of ultrasonic detection.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  17 of 32  
 shutdown time and causes certain economic losses. Therefore, how to reduce external in-
terference and how to carry out thermal imaging detection of wind turbine blades under operat ing conditions remains  a challenge.  
3.5. Ultrasonic Testing  
3.5.1. General  
Ultrasonic testing technology is a relatively mature technology to detect the defects 
of composite and other materials [ 123]. Ultrasonic testing technology is widely used to 
detect the internal debonding, delamination,  and other defects of wind turbine blade ma-
terials. An elastic wave of more than 20  kHz is introduced into the mechanism of the blade 
through a transmitter. The wave propagates along the structure of the blade and passes 
through or interacts with the defects (such as delamination, debonding, and crack) to 
make the wave change in the propagation process. The second sensor measures the mode 
changes , such as propagation, amplitude, phase, time, reflection, and attenuation o f the 
elastic wave , to accurately judge the location and size of the damage [ 90,124]. Figure 16 
shows the basic detection mechanism of ultrasonic detection.  
 
Figure 16. Basic detection mechanism of ultrasonic detection . 
3.5.2. Research Progress  
Kumar Anubhav  Tiwari et al. used ultrasonic nondestructive testing on wind turbine 
blades made of composite glass fiber -reinforced materials. The acoustic signal is refined 
to characterize the types of defects , such as debonding at different positions of the blade 
[125]. The team proposed a hybrid signal -processing technology, which combines discrete 
wavelet transform with an amplitude detection method to estimate the size and location 
of defects in wind turbine  blades. The variational modal decomposition is combined with 
the Hilbert transform to compare the instantaneous frequency and amplitude of defective 
and non- defective signals, a nd for measuring the time delay between defective and non -
defective signals [ 126,127]. Q. Liu et al. designed an automatic positioning system for ul-
trasonic detection of wind turbine blade defects, which can automatically send and obtain 
ultrasonic waves. Thus, the damage detection of the blade can be realized efficiently [ 128]. 
Byeongjin Park et al. proposed a non- contact laser ultrasonic measurement system. Firstly, 
the system uses adaptive rough scanning of the wind turbine blades to identify layered 
areas and locate them quickly. Then the layered area is scanned in high resolution and 
high density, and finally, the rapid visualization of the layered part of the blade is realized. 
The system shortens the detection time and improves the detection efficiency [ 129]. Based 
on ultrasonic nondestructive testing, Alfredo Arcos Jiménez et al. used advanced signal-processing methods and machine learning to detect the dirt and corrosion of blades. This 
method first carries out wavelet transform on the signal and reduces the dimension of the 
Figure 16. Basic detection mechanism of ultrasonic detection.
3.5.2. Research Progress
Kumar Anubhav Tiwari et al. used ultrasonic nondestructive testing on wind turbine
blades made of composite glass ﬁber-reinforced materials. The acoustic signal is reﬁned to
characterize the types of defects, such as debonding at different positions of the blade [ 125].
The team proposed a hybrid signal-processing technology, which combines discrete wavelet
transform with an amplitude detection method to estimate the size and location of defects
in wind turbine blades. The variational modal decomposition is combined with the Hilbert
transform to compare the instantaneous frequency and amplitude of defective and non-
defective signals, and for measuring the time delay between defective and non-defective
signals [ 126,127]. Q. Liu et al. designed an automatic positioning system for ultrasonic
detection of wind turbine blade defects, which can automatically send and obtain ultrasonic
waves. Thus, the damage detection of the blade can be realized efﬁciently [ 128]. Byeongjin
Park et al. proposed a non-contact laser ultrasonic measurement system. Firstly, the system
uses adaptive rough scanning of the wind turbine blades to identify layered areas and
locate them quickly. Then the layered area is scanned in high resolution and high density,
and ﬁnally, the rapid visualization of the layered part of the blade is realized. The system
shortens the detection time and improves the detection efﬁciency [ 129]. Based on ultrasonic
nondestructive testing, Alfredo Arcos Jim énez et al. used advanced signal-processing
methods and machine learning to detect the dirt and corrosion of blades. This method ﬁrst
carries out wavelet transform on the signal and reduces the dimension of the signal through
feature extraction and feature selection. The experimental results show that this method
provides good results for the detection and diagnosis of blade mud [130]. Andr éLamarre
et al. proposed advanced ultrasonic phased-array technology to detect the bonding integrity
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 18 of 31
between the structural beam and the shell in the manufacturing process of composite wind
turbine blades. This technology can realize the rapid detection of 100% coverage [ 131].
Li Ting et al. studied the quantitative relationship between ultrasonic parameters and
millimeter debonding defects using time domain analysis and short-time Fourier transform
(STFT) time-frequency analysis through simulation. An STFT time–frequency diagram is
helpful to visually distinguish different degrees of defects [ 132]. Guoliang Ye et al. used
pulse echo ultrasound to detect the internal damage of wind turbine blades and developed
a software system to control automatic scanning and display the internal damage area in
2D/3D maps of different colors [ 123]. Haozuo proposed a two-dimensional multiple signal
classiﬁcation (Music) damage-identiﬁcation algorithm based on a guided wave propagation
model. Using the orthogonality of signal subspace and noise subspace to search for the
peak point of the spatial spectrum in the monitoring area, the damage can be successfully
identiﬁed [ 133]. S. Shoja et al. developed a calculation model to simulate the propagation
of guided waves in frozen blade materials, and introduced a post-processing algorithm
and icing index. The results show that this method can be used to detect the icing of
wind turbine blades [ 134]. T. Michaels proposed a non-contact ultrasonic testing method
without a coupling agent, which is realized by connecting sparse ultrasonic transducers
to the back of the assembly or embedding them in the assembly. These transducers are
excited to generate ultrasonic waves propagating through the structure, and the generated
acoustic ﬁeld is imaged by using non-contact air-coupled transducers, This ultrasonic wave
ﬁeld imaging method is called acoustic ﬁeld imaging (AWI). The results show that the
recorded waveﬁeld image clearly shows the bonding defects at the internal interface [ 135].
Byeongjinpark proposed a complete non-contact laser ultrasonic ﬁeld imaging technology.
The scanning laser beam is used as the transmitter and the laser Doppler vibrometer as the
receiver. The receiver is used to automatically detect and visualize hidden delamination
and debonding in composite structures [ 136]. Mois és A. Oliveira et al. proposed using
bubble pulse echo ultrasonic technology to obtain data from the wind turbine blade samples.
Wavelet denoising and principal component analysis are used to preprocess the ultrasonic
signal. Finally, the relevant defect features are extracted from ultrasonic signals [137].
3.5.3. Analysis of Advantages and Disadvantages
Ultrasonic detection technology can detect the millimeter level damage inside the
blade [ 138], which has great advantages for the defect and delamination detection of the
blade sub surface. which provides strong support for the early detection and early warning
of blade internal damage [ 132]. Ultrasonic testing technology is not affected by the external
environment (such as temperature, humidity, noise, etc.). The attenuation of ultrasonic
signals in long-distance transmission is small [125].
Ultrasonic testing needs the help of a liquid couplant, and if the damage is not on the
propagation path of ultrasonic waves, the damage will be difﬁcult to detect, or the sensitiv-
ity will be reduced. This technology is difﬁcult to use to detect wind turbine blades that
have been in service [ 139]. The multilayer composite structure is prone to noise pollution
and complex signal processing [9]. It is an important research direction of this technology
to study the efﬁcient algorithm of ultrasonic detection based on artiﬁcial intelligence.
3.6. Vibration Monitoring
3.6.1. General
Vibration monitoring is a widely used monitoring technology, which mainly monitors
the health state of the blade based on the dynamic response of the blade structure under
external force excitation [ 140,141]. Since the dynamic response of the blade depends on the
characteristics of the blade material and structure (such as mass, stiffness, and damping),
the reduction in blade stiffness caused by the blade damage leads to the change in modal
characteristics, Therefore, damage changes in the blade structure can be characterized and
detected from the characteristics of the dynamic response and modal parameters [ 124].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 19 of 31
However, only those sensors located near the defect location can respond sensitively to the
crack propagation in the blade.
A vibration sensor will be used for vibration monitoring. The use of a vibration
sensor depends on the range of frequency. Generally, a displacement sensor measurement
is used for low frequencies, speed sensor measurement is used for medium frequencies,
and acceleration sensor measurement is used for high frequencies [ 90]. Among them,
the acceleration sensor is widely used for WTB detection [ 142]. Figure 17 shows the
dynamic experiment of using an acceleration sensor to monitor wind turbine blades. Signal
processing is a key component of any vibration-based structural health monitoring (SHM).
The purpose of signal processing is to extract the subtle changes in the vibration signals
in order to detect, locate, and quantify the damage, and its severity, to the structure [ 143].
For example, empirical mode decomposition (EMD), Markov model (HMM), deep neural
network (DNN), and other methods are regarded as signal-processing tools for blade fault
detection [9,101].
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  19 of 32  
 on the characteristics of the blade material and structure (such as mass, stiffness,  and 
damping), the reduction in  blade stiffness caused by the blade damage leads to the change 
in modal characteristics, Therefore, damage changes in the blade structure can be charac-
terized and detected from the characteristics of the dynamic response and modal param-
eters [124]. Howe ver, only those sensors located near the defect location can respond sen-
sitively to the crack propagation in the blade.  
A vibration sensor will be used for vibration monitoring. The use of a vibration sen-
sor depends on the range of frequency. Generally, a displacement sensor measurement is 
used for low frequenc ies, speed sensor measurement is used for medium frequenc ies, and 
acceleration sensor measurement is used for high frequenc ies [90]. Among them, the ac-
celeration sensor is widely used for WTB detection  [142]. Figure 17 shows the dynamic 
experiment of using an acceleration sensor to monitor wind turbine blades . Signal pro-
cessing is a key component of any vibration -based structural health monitoring (SHM). 
The purpose of signal processing is to e xtract the subtle changes in the  vibration signals 
in order to detect, locate,  and quantify the damage , and its severity,  to the structure [ 143]. 
For example, empirical mode decomposition (EMD), Markov model (HMM), deep neural 
network (DNN), and other meth ods are regarded as signal- processing tools for blade fault 
detection  [9,101]. 
  
Figure 17. The dynamic experiment of monitoring wind turbine blades with acceleration sensor s. 
3.6.2. Research Progress  
Yanfeng Wang et al. combined the finite element method (FEM) with the modal dif-
ference curvature (MSDC) information method for damage detection/diagnosis and pro-
posed a dynamic analysis method (modal analysis and response analysis) to realize blade -
damage detection and diagnosis. The results sho w that this method can detect the spatial 
location of wind turbine blade damage [ 144]. N. Dervilis et al. used probabilistic principal 
component analysis (PPCA) and other methods to convert the original measured value 
into a low -dimensional representation. This novel detection technology provides a ma-
chine learning method for the structural health monitoring of wind turbine blades [ 145]. 
Alexandros Skrimpas use d a cabin vibration acceleration sensor and power performance 
curve analysis to detect the icing o f the wind turbine blades. In the process of detecting 
and verifying the wind turbine with frozen blades, similar patterns on the vibration and 
power curve data verif ied the effectiveness of this method in detecting ice formation [ 146]. 
M. D. Ulriksen proposed a method based on modal and wavelet analysis, which was ap-
plied to the damage identification of wind turbine blades. Firstly, the modal shapes of 
undamaged and dama ged blades were obtained. The modal shape was  analyzed by a one -
dimensional continuous wavelet transform for damage identification [ 147]. Łukasz 
Doliński et al. used the finite element method (FEM) and laser -scanning vibration method 
(LSV) to obtain numeri cal results. One -dimensional , continuous wavelet transforms based 
on the vibration parameters of the wind turbine blades were used to determine the de-
lamination position and nondestructive diagnosis in wind turbine blades [ 148]. Lijun 
Figure 17. The dynamic experiment of monitoring wind turbine blades with acceleration sensors.
3.6.2. Research Progress
Yanfeng Wang et al. combined the ﬁnite element method (FEM) with the modal
difference curvature (MSDC) information method for damage detection/diagnosis and
proposed a dynamic analysis method (modal analysis and response analysis) to realize
blade-damage detection and diagnosis. The results show that this method can detect the
spatial location of wind turbine blade damage [ 144]. N. Dervilis et al. used probabilistic
principal component analysis (PPCA) and other methods to convert the original measured
value into a low-dimensional representation. This novel detection technology provides a
machine learning method for the structural health monitoring of wind turbine blades [ 145].
Alexandros Skrimpas used a cabin vibration acceleration sensor and power performance
curve analysis to detect the icing of the wind turbine blades. In the process of detecting and
verifying the wind turbine with frozen blades, similar patterns on the vibration and power
curve data veriﬁed the effectiveness of this method in detecting ice formation [ 146]. M. D.
Ulriksen proposed a method based on modal and wavelet analysis, which was applied to
the damage identiﬁcation of wind turbine blades. Firstly, the modal shapes of undamaged
and damaged blades were obtained. The modal shape was analyzed by a one-dimensional
continuous wavelet transform for damage identiﬁcation [ 147]. Łukasz Doli ´ nski et al. used
the ﬁnite element method (FEM) and laser-scanning vibration method (LSV) to obtain
numerical results. One-dimensional, continuous wavelet transforms based on the vibration
parameters of the wind turbine blades were used to determine the delamination position
and nondestructive diagnosis in wind turbine blades [ 148]. Lijun Zhang et al. used SCADA
data to detect the ice of wind turbine blades, and proposed a model based on a random
forest classiﬁer. Compared with other classiﬁcation models, the model based on a random
forest classiﬁer is more accurate and efﬁcient in computing power and is more suitable for
the practical application of blade icing detection [ 149]. L. Colone proposed a method to
detect the quality of wind turbine blades by using natural frequencies, which is based on sta-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 20 of 31
tistical pattern recognition of structural natural frequency changes [ 105]. Andrew Summers
et al. combined coherent lidar technology with B-spline point generation and alignment to
establish accurate measurement technology for wind turbine blade detection [106]. Philip
Arnold proposed a radar-based method for structural health monitoring of wind turbine
blades. This method proposed a differential damage location framework, which uses the
signal difference between the measured values of intact and damaged blades to image the
defects in 3D [ 122]. S. Ganeriwala used modal analysis to detect cracks in wind turbine
blades. The acceleration was measured at 13 locations on the blade surface. The modal
frequency, shape, and damping of the ﬁrst eight modes were extracted and compared in dif-
ferent health states. The results show that the natural frequency and damping of the speciﬁc
modes are sensitive to surface cracks [ 150]. Tcherniak et al. developed a vibration-based
SHM system. The system uses the impact generated by the electromechanical actuator
installed inside the blade, and the accelerometer array measures the vibration response
generated by the blade to detect the damage. The detected damage is described based on
the covariance matrix calculated from several measured acceleration responses [151].
3.6.3. Analysis of Advantages and Disadvantages
Vibration monitoring is a widely used and easy-to-understand technology, which is
mainly based on the modal changes between the intact state and the damaged state of
the structure. The vibration-based method is an easy-to-implement, mature, and highly
reliable blade fault identiﬁcation method. It is also a non-destructive testing technology. It
has been proved that the external damage and edge damage of blades are identiﬁable in
the laboratory [ 152–154]. The main disadvantage of this method is that many sensors are
needed to detect the location and severity of the damage, and wind speed, rotation speed,
temperature, environmental operating conditions, etc., will signiﬁcantly affect the dynamic
characteristics of the blades [ 124,155]; this will cause the detection of damage to go wrong.
In addition, the vibration-based method has difﬁculty in detecting early damage because
the vibration signal has a low signal-to-noise ratio. The difﬁculty and research hotspot of
this technology is to distinguish the vibration caused by the environment and operating
conditions from the vibration caused by blade damage [9,156].
3.7. Acoustic Monitoring
3.7.1. General
Acoustic monitoring technology is mainly used to monitor the sound pressure change
of the air medium to realize the detection of blade structure health. The sensor of the
sound pressure change measurement is a microphone. The wind turbine will produce
a lot of noise during operation, and some of them are directly related to the health state
of the blades [ 157]. The sound collected by the microphone can be used to extract the
information related to blade damage by using a variety of signal-processing strategies,
which can realize the monitoring of blade health [ 158,159]. In addition to single microphone
measurements, multiple microphones can also be assembled into a microphone array to
realize the directional measurement of the sound source [160].
Acoustic monitoring technology is divided into active acoustic detection and passive
acoustic detection. As shown in Figure 18, active acoustic monitoring is used to detect the
damage to blades by using the sound generated by generators such as speakers. Passive
acoustic detection is mainly based on the sound generated by the natural operation of the
blade structure, such as the sound naturally generated by structural changes such as blade
cracking and corrosion.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 21 of 31
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  21 of 32  
 blade structure, such as the sound naturally generated by structural changes such as blade 
cracking and corrosion.  
 
Figure 18. Active acoustic detection and passive acoustic detection . 
3.7.2. Research Progress  
Bruno M. Fazenda et al. used a microphone to collect the sound generated by the 
stratification near the tip of a small wind turbine blade during operation and proposed a 
feature extraction as well as fault diagnosis method through time synchronization analy-
sis (TSA), overall empirical m ode decomposition (EEMD),  and a single eigenmode func-
tion spectrum. The results showed that obvious harmonic changes were observed [ 161]. 
The team also used this method to simulate the acoustic characteristics of blade icing. Two 
detection methods were developed to detect the degree of blade icing and improve the 
detection accuracy [ 162]. Thomas C. Krause et al. developed a detection algorithm based 
on signal analysis. The algorithm considers the power spectral density, tone, spectral 
slope, spectral simila rity, and pulse attenuation characteristics to detect the crack sound 
from the sound pressure measurement inside the wind turbine blade, but the accuracy is 
relatively low. Later, the algorithm considers pulse detection in a single frequency band. 
Compared with the previous version, the number of correctly identified crack events is 
three times [ 163,164]. V. Aroraa et al. proposed a damage- detection method based on ac-
tive acoustics. By comparing the changes in  the vibration acoustic flexibility matrix be-
tween damaged and undamaged  blades, the location and degree of damage were ob-
tained. The results show that the proposed method can be used to accurately detect the 
location and extension of damage [ 165]. Peyman Poozesh et al. proposed to use a single 
micropho ne or beamforming array to observe the sound radiation of the blade to detect 
the damage in the blade. First, install the audio speaker in the wind turbine blade, and 
then observe the sound radiated by the blade to identify the damage. The results show 
that both acoustic beamforming and CLEAN -based point spread function subtraction can 
identify the damage in the blade with high enough fidelity [ 166]. Regan et al. measured 
the sound signal generated by the Bluetooth speaker in the wind turbine blade through 
the microphone installed outside the tower. The combination of calculated statistical and spectral features was  used as the input of the machine learning model to classify the health 
state of the wind turbine blades. The results show that 98% of the data c an be correctly 
classified, including several individual edge cracks and hole damage [ 167]. Some compu-
tational acoustic methods have been used for damage identification of wind turbine 
blades [168,169]. Shilin  sun et al. proposed an adaptive identification method of blade 
damage based on microphone array and compressed beamforming to realize the overall 
and remote health assessment of blades  [160]. Christopher Beale proposed an adaptive 
wavelet packet denoising algorithm to enhance the denoising performance of real -time 
active acoustic monitoring [ 170]. 
3.7.3. Analysis of Advantages and Disadvantages  
Based on acoustic blade -monitoring technology, passive acoustic monitoring can 
capture blade sound information in real time and online. Only one microphone device is 
needed to evaluate the health status of the blade under operating conditions. This 
Figure 18. Active acoustic detection and passive acoustic detection.
3.7.2. Research Progress
Bruno M. Fazenda et al. used a microphone to collect the sound generated by the
stratiﬁcation near the tip of a small wind turbine blade during operation and proposed a
feature extraction as well as fault diagnosis method through time synchronization analysis
(TSA), overall empirical mode decomposition (EEMD), and a single eigenmode function
spectrum. The results showed that obvious harmonic changes were observed [ 161]. The
team also used this method to simulate the acoustic characteristics of blade icing. Two
detection methods were developed to detect the degree of blade icing and improve the
detection accuracy [ 162]. Thomas C. Krause et al. developed a detection algorithm based
on signal analysis. The algorithm considers the power spectral density, tone, spectral
slope, spectral similarity, and pulse attenuation characteristics to detect the crack sound
from the sound pressure measurement inside the wind turbine blade, but the accuracy
is relatively low. Later, the algorithm considers pulse detection in a single frequency
band. Compared with the previous version, the number of correctly identiﬁed crack
events is three times [ 163,164]. V . Aroraa et al. proposed a damage-detection method
based on active acoustics. By comparing the changes in the vibration acoustic ﬂexibility
matrix between damaged and undamaged blades, the location and degree of damage were
obtained. The results show that the proposed method can be used to accurately detect the
location and extension of damage [ 165]. Peyman Poozesh et al. proposed to use a single
microphone or beamforming array to observe the sound radiation of the blade to detect
the damage in the blade. First, install the audio speaker in the wind turbine blade, and
then observe the sound radiated by the blade to identify the damage. The results show
that both acoustic beamforming and CLEAN-based point spread function subtraction can
identify the damage in the blade with high enough ﬁdelity [ 166]. Regan et al. measured
the sound signal generated by the Bluetooth speaker in the wind turbine blade through
the microphone installed outside the tower. The combination of calculated statistical and
spectral features was used as the input of the machine learning model to classify the
health state of the wind turbine blades. The results show that 98% of the data can be
correctly classiﬁed, including several individual edge cracks and hole damage [ 167]. Some
computational acoustic methods have been used for damage identiﬁcation of wind turbine
blades [ 168,169]. Shilin sun et al. proposed an adaptive identiﬁcation method of blade
damage based on microphone array and compressed beamforming to realize the overall
and remote health assessment of blades [ 160]. Christopher Beale proposed an adaptive
wavelet packet denoising algorithm to enhance the denoising performance of real-time
active acoustic monitoring [170].
3.7.3. Analysis of Advantages and Disadvantages
Based on acoustic blade-monitoring technology, passive acoustic monitoring can
capture blade sound information in real time and online. Only one microphone device
is needed to evaluate the health status of the blade under operating conditions. This
technology has great potential for timely detection of blade faults. However, this requires
continuous and intermittent sampling, storage, and calculation, and the collected sound is
vulnerable to other noise interference. Active acoustic monitoring is more ﬂexible and can
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 22 of 31
control when to carry out acoustic detection of blades. However, this technology requires
additional power and acoustic excitation equipment (such as speakers) in addition to
microphone equipment. Both technologies need a high sampling rate to capture the sound
signal of blade damage more accurately. In future research, how to accurately identify and
extract the sound of various damaged types of blades and how to realize robust signal
processing in a noise environment are important research directions.
3.8. Other Case Study Methods
There are other blade damage-detection technologies, such as the ray-detection method.
There are two different radiation sources in the industry: X-ray and gamma ray. These two
methods have been used to identify the density difference detection in the wind turbine
blade structure, which can detect the damage and defects inside the blade. Holub W et al.
analyzed different types of defects of blades through X-ray image processing, especially
defects in ﬁber materials [ 171]. J. G. Fantidis et al. used gamma radiography to detect
defects such as blade cracks, corrosion, inclusions, and thickness changes [ 172]. Shear
imaging detection technology shows the change in surface deformation by interfering with
the laser point mode [ 173]. Hyperspectral imaging is a nondestructive testing technology,
which has high accuracy and precision in blade-defect detection [ 174]. Some researchers
have developed a fault-detection method for helicopter rotor systems based on a neural net-
work. In detail, the two neural networks are composed of an input layer, hidden layer, and
output layer, which are used to classify the fault type and characterize the damage degree.
Introducing this method to the fault detection of wind turbines is a direction worthy of
study [ 175]. Andrea Skypranou et al. proposed a damage-detection method based on spa-
tiotemporal continuous wavelet transform (spt-cwt) analysis of time response series. The
proposed method does not need to understand the actual environmental conditions [176].
4. Comparison and Analysis
4.1. Comparison
In the previous part of this article, the main detection methods of and research progress
on blade damage are introduced. The blades of wind turbines are rotating components,
and most of the wind turbines are located in remote areas. Offshore wind turbines are
also gradually moving towards the deep sea, and their operation and maintenance costs
are much higher than that of onshore wind turbines. In this section, various damage-
detection technologies are compared and analyzed through tables, comparison for major
NDT methods are provided in Table 1 and the possible research directions for the future
are analyzed and predicted.
Table 1. Summary and comparison of the major methods for WTB inspection (based on the data from
references used in this paper).
Main Detection Methods Advantage Disadvantage
Strain detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It can sensitively detect local small structural changes
and realize early fault detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection The sensor needs to contact the blade to get better
detection results
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
It can detect continuously during operation and
predict the service life
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It needs the theoretical support of high strain zone, and
accurate installation can improve the detection
accuracy
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Sensitive to internal defects (optical ﬁber sensor)
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Due to the limited monitoring range of sensors, more
sensors are needed to realize the whole global detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Low cost, small size, low sampling rate, without
external active incentives
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection The reliability of the sensor is easy to deteriorate due to
creep and fatigue
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Free from electromagnetic interference (optical ﬁber
sensor), better frequency response.
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Insensitive to internal defects (resistance strain gauge)
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
No external power supply (optical ﬁber sensor) is
required.
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Complex manufacturing process (optical ﬁber sensor)
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Long-distance signal transmission will not degrade
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Each resistance strain gauge requires at least two wires,
which increases the complexity of the system
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 23 of 31
Table 1. Cont.
Main Detection Methods Advantage Disadvantage
Visual detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Low cost, high precision, suitable for surface damage
detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection A lot of calculation is needed, the accuracy of detection
depends on the high-precision calculation and
processing of image processing software.
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Use UAV to realize ﬂexible detection and avoid the
safety risk of manual climbing detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Unable to detect internal damage
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
It can carry out a wide range of global detection in a
short time
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It needs to cooperate with accurately controlled UAV
to realize detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Abundant image processing algorithms can realize
online
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Easily disturbed by weather and light
Acoustic emission detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection High sensitivity for different types of damage
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It requires domain contact and can be detected more
accurately when it is installed on the blade
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Continuous on-line detection and early detection of
damage
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Need multiple sensors to improve detection accuracy
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
It can realize the location of damage
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It is easy to be disturbed by noise. Only the damage
near the sensor is easier to be detected
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
No need for external incentives
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It is often used in noisy operating environment, and
the signal is weak and easy to decay, so it is difﬁcult to
identify AE signals
Thermal imaging detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It can realize the intuitive detection of the whole ﬁeld
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It is sensitive to temperature changes and is affected by
temperature and air humidity
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Simple application and relatively short detection time
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Cannot be used for early detection of damage
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
It is sensitive to fatigue, delamination and other tests
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Not applicable to continuous operation detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
UAV detection can be used
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Active imaging requires external excitation
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Non-contact installation
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Requires high resolution and thermal image processing
Ultrasonic detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It has high sensitivity and reliability for internal
damage detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection The sensor needs to be connected to the surface for
detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
The location, depth and severity of damage can be
determined
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection For such a large structure, the detection time is
relatively long
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Very small defects can be detected
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Damage detection cannot be carried out during
operation
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
The size and shape of the damage can be imaged
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Need additional incentives
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Long-distance propagation, less attenuation
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Multilayer composite structure is more susceptible to
noise pollution, resulting in complex signal processing
Vibration detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Nondestructive and highly sensitive detection
technology
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection The environment will affect dynamic properties,
resulting in errors in detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Abundant signal processing algorithms
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection In the limited detection range, it requires multiple
sensors to detect the location and severity of damage
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Easy to install and implement
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection It has low sensitivity (low SNR) to minor damage and
early damage
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
The location and severity of the damage can be
detected
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Extensive interference makes it difﬁcult to distinguish
between vibration characteristics from normal use and
changes due to damage
Acoustic detection
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Comprehensive detection can be carried out in the
operation of wind turbines
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Damage with constant sound energy cannot be
detected
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Relatively few sensors are required
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection High slave sampling rate makes signal processing
difﬁcult
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
It is sensitive to weak defects and early defects
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection As the distance increases, the sound signal will decay
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
The event and severity of damage can be detected
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection Active acoustic detection requires external excitation
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection 
Microphone array can be used for positioning
Energies 2022, 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 32  
 Acoustic detection  Comprehensive detection can be carried 
out in the operation of wind turbines  Damage with constant sound energy cannot be de-
tected 
 Relatively few sensors are required  High slave sampling rate makes signal processing 
difficult 
 It is sensitive to weak defects and early 
defects  As the distance increases, the sound signal will de-
cay 
 The event and severity of damage can be 
detected   Active acoustic detection requires external excitation  
 Microphone array can be used for posi-
tioning  The correlation between signal and damage is not 
clear enough and needs further study 
4.2. Future Research Directions 
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause cer-
tain economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid. 
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research di-
rection worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their own 
advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies can give 
full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of different 
types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine vision and 
image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision has the 
characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special image 
acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be eas-
ily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual 
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in 
the operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade de-
tection data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the instal-
lation, design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not 
only an interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The op-
eration and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore 
wind power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection 
methods and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has 
become an important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how 
to reduce noise. However, at sea, the influence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind 
turbine blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located far-
ther and farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring 
method to assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential. 
5. Conclusions 
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and effi-
cient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce 
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic 
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical 
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detec-
tion technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible re-
search direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vi-
bration monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, eco-
nomical, and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor 
needs to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultra-
sonic detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great 
advantages for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot effi-
ciently realize full-field detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires 
the use of couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the sur-
face and internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected 
when the wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection The correlation between signal and damage is not clear
enough and needs further study
4.2. Future Research Directions
Most detection technologies need shutdown detection. A shutdown will cause certain
economic losses in the future and will also have a certain impact on the power grid.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 24 of 31
How to classify and evaluate blade damage under operating conditions is a research
direction worthy of attention. All kinds of blade-damage-detection methods have their
own advantages and limitations. The combination of different detection technologies
can give full play to their respective advantages and realize the synchronous detection of
different types of damage in different areas of blades. With the development of machine
vision and image-processing technology, the detection technology based on machine vision
has the characteristics of low cost and simple operation. Through the application of special
image acquisition equipment and image-processing methods, the detection accuracy can be
easily improved. Image processing and related algorithms, and machine learning of visual
damage recognition, are promising research directions. Various data will be generated in the
operation of current wind turbine equipment. Combining these data with blade detection
data can accurately monitor the damage to the whole blade. In addition, the installation,
design, and integration of a wind turbine blade-damage-detection device is not only an
interesting and challenging problem but also a potential future direction. The operation
and maintenance cost of offshore wind power is much higher than that of onshore wind
power. According to the characteristics of offshore wind power, new detection methods
and equipment are needed. The noise interference of onshore wind turbines has become an
important condition to limit the installation. Most noise studies focus on how to reduce
noise. However, at sea, the inﬂuence of aerodynamic noise generated by wind turbine
blades is relatively small. Furthermore, offshore wind farms are being located farther and
farther away from the shore, so using acoustic technology as the monitoring method to
assess offshore wind turbine blade damage has very high potential.
5. Conclusions
The health monitoring of wind turbine blades is very important for the safe and
efﬁcient operation of wind turbines. Detection of blade failure on time can not only reduce
downtime, lower operation and maintenance costs, but also avoid greater catastrophic
losses. Based on practical problems, this paper comprehensively summarizes the typical
damages and their mechanism. The mechanism and research progress of the main detection
technology at present were deeply studied and analyzed. Finally, the possible research
direction of wind turbine blade damage-detection technology is highlighted. Vibration
monitoring, strain monitoring, and acoustic emission (AE) are widely used, economical,
and practical methods to detect wind turbines in operation. However, the sensor needs
to be in close contact with the blade surface to get a better detection effect. Ultrasonic
detection is also a contact detection method. Although this technology has great advantages
for detecting the hidden damage of the blade, this technology cannot efﬁciently realize
full-ﬁeld detection under a running state, and most of the detection requires the use of
couplants. Visual inspection and thermal imaging can intuitively detect the surface and
internal damage of blades without contact, but most of them need to be detected when the
wind turbine is stopped to have more accurate results. The acoustic detection can detect the
health state of the blade under the running state without contact. This method only needs
to install a microphone, and the installation is relatively simple. It can be directly installed
in a suitable position, but the accurate identiﬁcation of blade noise changes caused by blade
damage needs further research. Most wind farms are located in remote areas, and offshore
wind power is also gradually moving towards the deep sea. To sum up, non-contact,
real-time, online, remote, accurate health detection of blades under operating conditions
will be the main trend in wind turbine blade damage detection in the future. This paper will
provide a reference for understanding the mechanisms behind the main damage types and
collates the main damage-detection methods of wind turbine blades, which has important
signiﬁcance for further promoting practical research in damage-detection technology of
wind turbine blades and grasping the research directions.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, W.W. and Y.X.; methodology, W.W.; software, W.W.;
validation, W.W., Y.X. and Y.Z.; formal analysis, W.W.; investigation, W.W.; resources, W.W.; data
curation, W.W.; writing—original draft preparation, W.W.; writing—review and editing, Y.X. and
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 25 of 31
C.H.; visualization, W.W.; supervision, Y.X.; project administration, Y.X.; funding acquisition, Y.X. All
authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by the special fund for offshore wind power Intelligent Measure-
ment and Control Research Center and Laboratory construction at Ocean University of China, grant
number 861901013159.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: This research is supported by Ocean University of China.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Abbreviations
The abbreviations employed in this article are listed below:
WTB Wind turbine blade
GFRP Glass ﬁber-reinforced polymer
CFRP Carbon ﬁber-reinforced polymer
AEP Annual energy production
FBG Fiber Bragg grating
POF Plastic optical ﬁber
FIF Feature information fusion
FOS Fiber optical sensors
DIC Digital image correlation
CNN Convolutional neural network
3D-DIC Three-dimensional digital image correlation
AE Acoustic emission
WPD Wavelet packet decomposition
TSA Thermoelastic stress analysis camera
STFT Short-time Fourier transform
TSA Time synchronization analysis
References
1. Opeyemi, B.M. Path to sustainable energy consumption: The possibility of substituting renewable energy for non-renewable
energy. Energy 2021 ,228, 120519. [CrossRef]
2. Zhao, J.; Patwary, A.K.; Qayyum, A.; Alharthi, M.; Bashir, F.; Mohsin, M.; Hanif, I.; Abbas, Q. The determinants of renewable
energy sources for the fueling of green and sustainable economy. Energy 2022 ,238 Pt C , 122029. [CrossRef]
3. Kreutz, M.; Alla, A.A.; Eisenstadt, A.; Freitag, M.; Thoben, K.-D. Ice Detection on Rotor Blades of Wind Turbines using RGB
Images and Convolutional Neural Networks. Procedia CIRP 2020 ,93, 1292–1297. [CrossRef]
4. Sayed, E.T.; Wilberforce, T.; Elsaid, K.; Rabaia, M.K.H.; Abdelkareem, M.A.; Chae, K.-J.; Olabi, A. A critical review on environ-
mental impacts of renewable energy systems and mitigation strategies: Wind, hydro, biomass and geothermal. Sci. Total Environ.
2020 ,766, 144505. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
5. Global Wind Report 2022—Global Wind Energy Council. Available online: https://www.nextias.com/current-affairs/13-04-2022
/global-wind-report-2022-gwec (accessed on 5 July 2022).
6. Liu, Q.; Sun, Y.; Wu, M. Decision-making methodologies in offshore wind power investments: A review. J. Clean. Prod. 2021 ,295,
126459. [CrossRef]
7. Zhao, Q.; Yuan, Y.; Sun, W.; Fan, X.; Fan, P .; Ma, Z. Reliability analysis of wind turbine blades based on non-Gaussian wind load
impact competition failure model. Measurement 2020 ,164, 107950. [CrossRef]
8. Chou, J.-S.; Chiu, C.-K.; Huang, I.-K.; Chi, K.-N. Failure analysis of wind turbine blade under critical wind loads. Eng. Fail. Anal.
2013 ,27, 99–118. [CrossRef]
9. Du, Y.; Zhou, S.; Jing, X.; Peng, Y.; Wu, H.; Kwok, N. Damage detection techniques for wind turbine blades: A review. Mech. Syst.
Signal Process. 2019 ,141, 106445. [CrossRef]
10. Allal, A.; Sahnoun, M.; Adjoudj, R.; Benslimane, S.M.; Mazar, M. Multi-agent based simulation-optimization of maintenance
routing in offshore wind farms. Comput. Ind. Eng. 2021 ,157, 107342. [CrossRef]
11. Ruiz, M.; Mujica, L.E.; Alf érez, S.; Acho, L.; Tutiv én, C.; Vidal, Y.; Rodellar, J.; Pozo, F. Wind turbine fault detection and
classiﬁcation by means of image texture analysis. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2018 ,107, 149–167. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 26 of 31
12. Ataya, S.; Ahmed, M.M. Damages of wind turbine blade trailing edge: Forms, location, and root causes. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2013 ,35,
480–488. [CrossRef]
13. Cripps, D. The future of repair. Reinf. Plast. 2011 ,55, 28–32. [CrossRef]
14. Marin, J.C.; Barroso, A.; Paris, F.; Canas, J. Study of damage and repair of blades of a 300 kW wind turbine. Energy 2008 ,33,
1068–1083. [CrossRef]
15. Schaarup, J. (Ed.) Guidelines for Design of Wind Turbines , 2nd ed.; Risø National Laboratory: Roskilde, Denmark, 2002.
16. Rachidi, F.; Rubinstein, M.; Montanya, J.; Berm údez, J.L.; Sola, R.R.; Sol à, G.; Korovkin, N. A Review of Current Issues in
Lightning Protection of New-Generation Wind-Turbine Blades. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2008 ,55, 2489–2496. [CrossRef]
17. Montany à, J. Lightning interaction and damages to wind turbines. In Proceedings of the V Russian Conference on Lightning
Protection, Saint Petersburg, Russia, 17–19 May 2016; pp. 1–15.
18. Garolera, A.C.; Madsen, S.F.; Nissim, M.; Myers, J.D.; Holboell, J. Lightning Damage to Wind Turbine Blades from Wind Farms in
the U.S. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2014 ,31, 1043–1049. [CrossRef]
19. Zhou, Q.; Liu, C.; Bian, X.; Lo, K.L.; Li, D. Numerical analysis of lightning attachment to wind turbine blade. Renew. Energy 2018 ,
116 Pt A , 584–593. [CrossRef]
20. Rakov, V .A.; Uman, M.A. Lightning: Physics and Effects ; Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK, 2007.
21. Uman, M.A. The Lightning Discharge ; Academic Press: Orlando, FL, USA, 1987.
22. Yan, J.; Li, Q.; Guo, Z.; Ma, Y.; Wang, G.; Zhang, L.; Yan, J.D. Puncture position on wind turbine blades and arc path evolution
under lightning strikes. Mater. Des. 2017 ,122, 197–205. [CrossRef]
23. Madsen, S. Interaction between Electrical Discharges and Materials for Wind Turbine Blades—Particularly Related to Lightning
Protection. Ph.D. Thesis, The Technical University of Denmark, Kongens Lyngby, Denmark, 2006.
24. Han, W.; Kim, J.; Kim, B. Effects of contamination and erosion at the leading edge of blade tip airfoils on the annual energy
production of wind turbines. Renew. Energy 2018 ,115, 817–823. [CrossRef]
25. Mishnaevsky, L.; Hasager, C.B.; Bak, C.; Tilg, A.-M.; Bech, J.I.; Rad, S.D.; Fæster, S. Leading edge erosion of wind turbine blades:
Understanding, prevention and protection. Renew. Energy 2021 ,169, 953–969. [CrossRef]
26. Spruce, C.J. Power performance of active stall wind turbines with blade contamination. In Proceedings of the Conference
Proceedings of EWEC, Athens, Greece, 27 February–2 March 2006.
27. Corten, G.; Veldkamp, H. Insects can halve wind-turbine power. Nature 2001 ,412, 41–42. [CrossRef]
28. Mishnaevsky, L., Jr. Toolbox for optimizing anti-erosion protective coatings of wind turbine blades: Overview of mechanisms
and technical solutions. Wind Energy 2019 ,22, 1636–1653. [CrossRef]
29. Amirzadeh, B.; Louhghalam, A.; Raessi, M.; Tootkaboni, M. A computational framework for the analysis of rain-induced erosion
in wind turbine blades, part I: Stochastic rain texture model and drop impact simulations. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2017 ,163,
33–43. [CrossRef]
30. Pugh, K.; Rasool, G.; Stack, M.M. Stack Some Thoughts on Mapping Tribological Issues of Wind Turbine Blades Due to Effects of
Onshore and Offshore Raindrop Erosion. J. Bio-Tribo-Corros. 2018 ,4, 1–8. [CrossRef]
31. Madi, E.; Pope, K.; Huang, W.; Iqbal, T. A review of integrating ice detection and mitigation for wind turbine blades. Renew.
Sustain. Energy Rev. 2019 ,103, 269–281. [CrossRef]
32. Pérez, J.M.P .; M árquez, F.P .G.; Ruiz-Hern ández, D. Economic viability analysis for icing blades detection in wind turbines. J.
Clean. Prod. 2016 ,135, 1150–1160. [CrossRef]
33. ISO 12494-2001 ; Atmospheric Icing of Structures. ISO: Geneva, Switzerland, 2001.
34. Bosch, S.; Peyke, G. Raum und Erneuerbare Energien—Anforderungen eines regenerativen Energiesystems an die Standortpla-
nung. Z. Angew. Geogr. 2010 ,34, 11–19. [CrossRef]
35. Technical Research Centre of Finland (VTT). Cold Climate Wind Energy Showing Huge Potential. Science Daily 2013 . Available
online: https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2013/05/130528091611.htm (accessed on 7 December 2017).
36. PHaselbach, P .U.; Bitsche, R.D.; Branner, K. The effect of delaminations on local buckling in wind turbine blades. Renew. Energy
2016 ,85, 295–305. [CrossRef]
37. Toft, H.; Branner, K.; Berring, P .; Sørensen, J.D. Defect distribution and reliability assessment of wind turbine blades. Eng. Struct.
2011 ,33, 171–180. [CrossRef]
38. Zhou, H.; Dou, H.; Qin, L.; Chen, Y.; Ni, Y.-Q.; Ko, J. A review of full-scale structural testing of wind turbine blades. Renew.
Sustain. Energy Rev. 2014 ,33, 177–187. [CrossRef]
39. Sierra-P érez, J.; Torres-Arredondo, M.A.; Güemes, A. Damage and nonlinearities detection in wind turbine blades based on strain
ﬁeld pattern recognition. FBGs, OBR and strain gauges comparison. Compos. Struct. 2016 ,135, 156–166. [CrossRef]
40. Hoffmann, K. An Introduction to Measurements Using Strain Gages ; Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik: Darmstadt, Germany, 1989.
41. Ltz, G.; Morey, W.W.; Glenn, W.H. Formation of Bragg gratings in optical ﬁbers by a ransverse olographic method. Opt. Lett. 1989 ,
14, 823–825.
42. Liu, Z.; Liu, X.; Zhu, S.P .; Zhu, P .; Liu, W.; Correia, J.A.; De Jesus, A.M. Reliability assessment of measurement accuracy for
FBG sensors used in structural tests of the wind turbine blades based on strain transfer laws. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2020 ,112, 104506.
[CrossRef]
43. Ye, X.W.; Su, Y.H.; Han, J.P . Structural health monitoring of civil infrastructure using optical ﬁber sensing technology: A
comprehensive review. Sci. World J. 2014 ,2014 , 652329. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 27 of 31
44. Jørgensen, E.R.; Borum, K.K.; McGugan, M.; Thomsen, C.; Jensen, F.; Debel, C.; Sørensen, B. Full Scale Testing of Wind Turbine Blade
to Failure-Flapwise Loading ; Risø National Laboratory: Roskilde, Denmark, 2004.
45. Takeda, N. Characterization of microscopic damage in composite laminates and real-time monitoring by embedded optical ﬁber
sensors. Int. J. Fatigue 2002 ,24, 281–289. [CrossRef]
46. Wu, J.; Song, C.; Saleem, H.S.; Downey, A.; Laﬂamme, S. Network of ﬂexible capacitive strain gauges for the reconstruction of
surface strain. Meas. Sci. Technol. 2015 ,26, 055103. [CrossRef]
47. Tian, S.; Yang, Z.; Chen, X.; Xie, Y. Damage detection based on static strain responses using FBG in a wind turbine blade. Sensors
2015 ,15, 19992–20005. [CrossRef]
48. Laﬂamme, S.; Cao, L.; Chatzi, E.; Ubertini, F. Damage detection and localization from dense network of strain sensors. Shock Vibr.
2016 ,2016 , 2562949. [CrossRef]
49. Lee, K.; Aihara, A.; Puntsagdash, G.; Kawaguchi, T.; Sakamoto, H.; Okuma, M. Feasibility study on a strain based deﬂection
monitoring system for wind turbine blades. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2017 ,82, 117–129. [CrossRef]
50. Aihara, A.; Kawaguchi, T.; Miki, N.; Azami, T.; Sakamoto, H.; Okuma, M. A Vibration Estimation Method for Wind Turbine
Blades. Exp. Mech. 2017 ,57, 1213–1224. [CrossRef]
51. Wen, B.; Tian, X.; Jiang, Z.; Li, Z.; Dong, X.; Peng, Z. Monitoring blade loads for a ﬂoating wind turbine in wave basin model tests
using Fiber Bragg Grating sensors: A feasibility study. Mar. Struct. 2020 ,71, 102729. [CrossRef]
52. Ramakrishnan, M.; Rajan, G.; Semenova, Y.; Farrell, G. Farrell Overview of ﬁber optic sensor technologies for strain/temperature
sensing applications in composite materials. Sensors 2016 ,16, 99. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
53. Hsu, T.-Y.; Shiao, S.-Y.; Liao, W.-I. Damage detection of rotating wind turbine blades using local ﬂexibility method and long-gauge
ﬁber Bragg grating sensors. Meas. Sci. Technol. 2018 ,29, 015108. [CrossRef]
54. Oh, K.Y.; Park, J.Y.; Lee, J.S.; Epureanu, B.I.; Lee, J.K. A novel method and its ﬁeld tests for monitoring and diagnosing blade
health for wind turbines. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2015 ,64, 1726–1733. [CrossRef]
55. Sørensen, B.F.; Lading, L.; Sendrup, P .; McGugan, M.; Debel, C.P .; Kristensen, O.J.; Larsen, G.C.; Hansen, A.M.; Rheinländer, J.;
Rusborg, J. Fundamentals for Remote Structural Health Monitoring of Wind Turbine Blades—A Preproject ; Risø National Laboratory:
Roskilde, Denmark, 2002.
56. Niezrecki, C.; Avitabile, P .; Chen, J.; Sherwood, J.; Lundstrom, T.; Leblanc, B.; Hughes, S.; Desmond, M.; Beattie, A.; Rumsey, M.;
et al. Inspection and monitoring of wind turbine blade-embedded wave defects during fatigue testing. Struct. Health Monit. 2014 ,
13, 629–643. [CrossRef]
57. Rumsey, M.A.; Paquette, J.A. Structural Health Monitoring of Wind Turbine Blades ; Sandia National Laboratories: Albuquerque, NM,
USA, 2008.
58. Downey, A.; Ubertini, F.; Laﬂamme, S. Algorithm for damage detection in wind turbine blades using a hybrid dense sensor
network with feature level data fusion. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2017 ,168, 288–296. [CrossRef]
59. Andersen, P .B.; Henriksen, L.; Gaunaa, M.; Bak, C.; Buhl, T. Deformable trailing edge ﬂaps for modern megawatt wind turbine
controllers using strain gauge sensors. Wind Energy 2010 ,13, 193–206. [CrossRef]
60. Bezziccheri, M.; Castellini, P .; Evangelisti, P .; Santolini, C.; Paone, N. Measurement of mechanical loads in large wind turbines:
Problems on calibration of strain gage bridges and analysis of uncertainty. Wind Energy 2017 ,20, 1997–2010. [CrossRef]
61. Bang, H.J.; Kim, H.I.; Kim, S.; Shin, H.; Lee, K.; Ahn, J. Three-dimensional deﬂection estimation of a composite blade using a
modal approach based shape estimation algorithm with embedded sensor array. In European Wind Energy Association Conference
and Exhibition ; EWEA: Barcelona, Spain, 2014.
62. Sampath, U.; Kim, H.; Kim, D.G.; Kim, Y.C.; Song, M. In-Situ cure monitoring of wind turbine blades by using ﬁber Bragg grating
sensors and fresnel reﬂection measurement. Sensors 2015 ,15, 18229–18238. [CrossRef]
63. Park, S.; Park, T.; Han, K. Real-time monitoring of composite wind turbine blades using ﬁber Bragg grating sensors. Adv. Compos.
Mater. 2011 ,20, 39–51. [CrossRef]
64. Schroeder, K.; Ecke, W.; Apitz, J.; Lembke, E.; Lenschow, G. Fibre Bragg grating sensor system monitors operational load in a
wind turbine rotor blade. In Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Optical Fibre Sensors, Bruges, Belgium, 23–27
May 2005; pp. 270–273.
65. Kim, D.; Kim, H.; Sampath, U.; Song, M. A hybrid ﬁber-optic sensor system for condition monitoring of large scale wind turbine
blades. In Proceedings of the Fifth Asia Paciﬁc Optical Sensors Conference, Jeju Island, Korea, 20–22 May 2015; p. 96550N.
66. Shihavuddin, A.S.M.; Chen, X.; Fedorov, V .; Nymark Christensen, A.; Andre Brogaard Riis, N.; Branner, K.; Bjorholm Dahl, A.;
Reinhold Paulsen, R. Wind turbine surface damage detection by deep learning aided drone inspection analysis. Energies 2019 ,12,
676. [CrossRef]
67. Zhao, X.-Y.; Dong, C.-Y.; Zhou, P .; Zhu, M.-J.; Ren, J.-W.; Chen, X.-Y. Detecting Surface Defects of Wind Tubine Blades Using an
Alexnet Deep Learning Algorithm. IEICE Trans. Fundam. Electron. Commun. Comput. Sci. 2019 ,E102-A , 1817–1824. [CrossRef]
68. Khadka, A.; Fick, B.; Afshar, A.; Tavakoli, M.; Baqersad, J. Non-contact vibration monitoring of rotating wind turbines using a
semi-autonomous UAV . Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2020 ,138, 10644. [CrossRef]
69. Reddy, A.; Indragandhi, V .; Ravi, L.; Subramaniyaswamy, V . Detection of Cracks and damage in wind turbine blades using
artiﬁcial intelligence-based image analytics. Measurement 2019 ,147, 106823. [CrossRef]
70. Zhang, C.; Wen, C.; Liu, J. Mask-MRNet: A deep neural network for wind turbine blade fault detection. J. Renew. Sustain. Energy
2020 ,12, 053302. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 28 of 31
71. Xu, D.; Wen, C.; Liu, J. Wind turbine blade surface inspection based on deep learning and UAV-taken images. J. Renew. Sustain.
Energy 2019 ,11, 053305. [CrossRef]
72. Ozbek, M.; Rixen, D.J.; Erne, O.; Sanow, G. Feasibility of monitoring large wind turbines using photogrammetry. Energy 2010 ,35,
4802–4811. [CrossRef]
73. Wang, L.; Zhang, Z. Automatic Detection of Wind Turbine Blade Surface Cracks Based on UAV-Taken Images. IEEE Trans. Ind.
Electron. 2017 ,64, 7293–7303. [CrossRef]
74. Rao, Y.; Xiang, B.J.; Huang, B.; Mao, S. Wind turbine blade inspection based on unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) visual systems. In
Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE 3rd Conference on Energy Internet and Energy System Integration (EI2), Changsha, China, 8–10
November 2019; pp. 708–713.
75. Voulodimos, A.; Doulamis, N.; Doulamis, A.; Protopapadakis, E. Deep Learning for Computer Vision: A Brief Review. Comput.
Intell. Neurosci. 2018 ,2018 , 7068349. [CrossRef]
76. Johnson, J.T.; Hughes, S.; van Dam, J. A stereo-videogrammetry system for monitoring wind turbine blade surfaces during
structural testing. ASME Early Career Tech. J. 2009 ,8, 1–10.
77. Yang, J.; Peng, C.; Xiao, J.; Zeng, J.; Yuan, Y. Application of videometric technique to deformation measurement for large-scale
composite wind turbine blade. Appl. Energy 2012 ,98, 292–300. [CrossRef]
78. Zhang, D.; Watson, R.; Dobie, G.; MacLeod, C.; Khan, A.; Pierce, G. Quantifying impacts on remote photogrammetric inspection
using unmanned aerial vehicles. Eng. Struct. 2020 ,209, 109940. [CrossRef]
79. Akhlouﬁ, M.; Benmesbah, N. Outdoor ice accretion estimation of wind turbine blades using computer vision Computer and
Robot Vision (CRV). In Proceedings of the 2014 Canadian Conference on Computer and Robot Vision, Montreal, QC, Canada, 4–6
May 2014; pp. 246–253.
80. Baqersad, J.; Poozesh, P .; Niezrecki, C.; Harvey, E.; Yarala, R. Full Field Inspection of a Utility Scale Wind Turbine Blade Using Digital
Image Correlation ; CAMX: Orlando, FL, USA, 2014; Volume 10, pp. 2891–2960.
81. Poozesh, P .; Baqersad, J.; Niezrecki, C.; Avitabile, P .; Harvey, E.; Yarala, R. Large-area photogrammetry based testing of wind
turbine blades. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2017 ,86, 98–115. [CrossRef]
82. Stokkeland, M.; Klausen, K.; Johansen, T.A. Autonomous visual navigation of unmanned aerial vehicle for wind turbine
inspection. In Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS). In Proceedings of the 2015 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft
Systems (ICUAS), Denver, CO, USA, 9–12 June 2015; pp. 998–1007.
83. Moreno, S.; Peña, M.; Toledo, A.; Treviño, R.; Ponce, H. A new vision-based method using deep learning for damage inspection in
wind turbine blades. In Proceedings of the 2018 15th International Conference on Electrical Engineering, Computing Science and
Automatic Control (CCE), Mexico City, Mexico, 5–7 September 2018; pp. 1–5.
84. Carr, J.; Baqersad, J.; Niezrecki, C.; Avitabile, P . Full-Field Dynamic Strain on Wind Turbine Blade Using Digital Image Correlation
Techniques and Limited Sets of Measured Data from Photogrammetric Targets. Exp. Tech. 2014 ,40, 819–831. [CrossRef]
85. Wu, R.; Zhang, D.; Yu, Q.; Jiang, Y.; Arola, D. Health monitoring of wind turbine blades in operation using three-dimensional
digital image correlation. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2019 ,130, 470–483. [CrossRef]
86. Kim, D.Y.; Kim, H.B.; Jung, W.S.; Lim, S.; Hwang, J.H.; Park, C.W. Park Visual testing system for the damaged area detection of
wind power plant blade. In Proceedings of the IEEE ISR 2013, Seoul, Korea, 24–26 October 2013; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2013;
Volume 2013, pp. 1–5.
87. Purarjomandlangrudi, A.; Nourbakhsh, G. Acoustic emission condition monitoring: An application for wind turbine fault
detection. Int. J. Res. Eng. Technol. 2013 ,2, 907–918.
88. Wei, J.; McCarty, J. Acoustic emission evaluation of composite wind turbine blades during fatigue testing. Wind Eng. 1993 ,17,
266–274.
89. Shateri, M.; Ghaib, M.; Svecova, D.; Thomson, D. On acoustic emission for damage detection and failure prediction in ﬁber
reinforced polymer rods using pattern recognition analysis. Smart Mater. Struct. 2017 ,26, 065023. [CrossRef]
90. Márquez, F.P .G.; Tobias, A.M.; P érez, J.M.P .; Papaelias, M. Condition monitoring of wind turbines: Techniques and methods.
Renew. Energy 2012 ,46, 169–178. [CrossRef]
91. Tang, J.; Soua, S.; Mares, C.; Gan, T.H. Gan an experimental study of acoustic emission methodology for in service condition
monitoring of wind turbine blades. Renew. Energy 2016 ,99, 170–179. [CrossRef]
92. Tang, J.; Soua, S.; Mares, C.; Gan, T.H. Gan A pattern recognition approach to acoustic emission data originating from fatigue of
wind turbine blades. Sensors 2017 ,17, 2507. [CrossRef]
93. Xu, D.; Liu, P .F.; Chen, Z.P .; Leng, J.X.; Jiao, L. Achieving robust damage mode identiﬁcation of adhesive composite joints for
wind turbine blade using acoustic emission and machine learning. Compos. Struct. 2020 ,236, 111840. [CrossRef]
94. Xu, D.; Liu, P .; Chen, Z. Damage mode identiﬁcation and singular signal detection of composite wind turbine blade using acoustic
emission. Compos. Struct. 2021 ,255, 112954. [CrossRef]
95. Han, B.H.; Yoon, D.J.; Huh, Y.H.; Lee, Y.S. Damage assessment of wind turbine blade under static loading test using acoustic
emission. J. Intell. Mater. Syst. Struct. 2014 ,25, 621–630. [CrossRef]
96. Zarouchas, D.; van Hemelrijck, D. Mechanical characterization and damage assessment of thick adhesives for wind turbine
blades using acoustic emission and digital image correlation technique. J. Adhes. Sci. Technol. 2014 ,28, 1500–1516. [CrossRef]
97. Bouzid, O.M.; Tian, G.Y.; Cumanan, K.; Moore, D. Moore Structural health monitoring of wind turbine blades: Acoustic source
localization using wireless sensor networks. J. Sens. 2015 ,2015 , 139695. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 29 of 31
98. Gómez Muñoz, C.Q.; Garc ía Márquez, F.P . A new fault location approach for acoustic emission techniques in wind turbines.
Energies 2016 ,1, 40. [CrossRef]
99. Zhou, W.; Li, Y.; Li, Z.; Liang, X.; Pang, Y.; Wang, F. Interlaminar shear properties and acoustic emission monitoring of the
delaminated composites for wind turbine blades. In Advances in Acoustic Emission Technology ; Springer: New York, NY, USA, 2015;
pp. 557–566.
100. Bo, Z.; Yanan, Z.; Changzheng, C. Acoustic emission detection of fatigue cracks in wind turbine blades based on blind deconvolu-
tion separation. Fatigue Fract. Eng. Mater. Struct. 2017 ,40, 959–970. [CrossRef]
101. Qiao, W.; Lu, D. A survey on wind turbine condition monitoring and fault diagnosis—Part II: Signals and signal processing
methods. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 6546–6557. [CrossRef]
102. Glowacz, A. Fault diagnosis of single-phase induction motor based on acoustic signals. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2019 ,117,
65–80. [CrossRef]
103. Rumsey, M.A.; Musial, W. Application of infrared thermography non-destructive testing during wind turbine blade tests. ASME
J. Sol. Energy Eng. 2001 ,123, 271. [CrossRef]
104. Worzewski, T.; Krankenhagen, R.; Doroshtnasir, M.; Röllig, M.; Maierhofer, C.; Steinfurth, H. Thermographic inspection of a wind
turbine rotor blade segment utilizing natural conditions as excitation source, Part I: Solar excitation for detecting deep structures
in GFRP . Infrared Phys. Technol. 2016 ,76, 756–766. [CrossRef]
105. Colone, L.; Hovgaard, M.K.; Glavind, L.; Brincker, R. Mass detection, localization and estimation for wind turbine blades based
on statistical pattern recognition. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2018 ,107, 266–277. [CrossRef]
106. Summers, A.; Wang, Q.; Brady, N.; Holden, R. Investigating the measurement of offshore wind turbine blades using coherent
laser radar. Robot. Comput.-Integr. Manuf. 2016 ,41, 43–52. [CrossRef]
107. Yang, B.; Sun, D. Testing, inspecting and monitoring technologies for wind turbine blades: A survey. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.
2013 ,22, 515–526. [CrossRef]
108. Newman, J.W. System and Method for Ground Based Inspection of Wind Turbine Blades ; Digital Wind Systems Inc.: Newtown Square,
PA, USA, 2017.
109. Doroshtnasir, M.; Worzewski, T.; Krankenhagen, R.; Röllig, M. On-site inspection of potential defects in wind turbine rotor blades
with thermography. Wind Energy 2016 ,19, 1407–1422. [CrossRef]
110. Li, X.; Sun, J.; Shen, J.; Wang, X.; Zhang, C.; Zhao, Y. Adhesive quality inspection of wind rotor blades using thermography. In
AIP Conference Proceedings ; AIP Publishing: Maharashtra, India, 2018; p. 230020.
111. Lizaranzu, M.; Lario, A.; Chiminelli, A.; Amenabar, I. Non-destructive testing of composite materials by means of active
thermography-based tools. Infrared Phys. Technol. 2015 ,71, 113–120. [CrossRef]
112. Hwang, S.; An, Y.K.; Sohn, H. Continuous line laser thermography for damage imaging of rotating wind turbine blades. Procedia
Eng. 2017 ,188, 225–232. [CrossRef]
113. Hwang, S.; An, Y.K.; Yang, J.; Sohn, H. Remote inspection of internal delamination in wind turbine blades using continuous line
laser scanning thermography. Int. J. Precis. Eng. Manuf.-Green Technol. 2020 ,7, 699–712. [CrossRef]
114. Dollinger, C.; Balaresque, N.; Gaudern, N.; Gleichauf, D.; Sorg, M.; Fischer, A. Ir thermographic ﬂow visualization for the
quantiﬁcation of boundary layer ﬂow disturbances due to the leading edge condition. Renew. Energy 2019 ,138, 709–721.
[CrossRef]
115. Galleguillos, C.; Zorrilla, A.; Jimenez, A.; Diaz, L.; Montiano, Á.L.; Barroso, M.; Viguria, A.; Lasagni, F. Thermographic
non-destructive inspection of wind turbine blades using unmanned aerial systems. Plast. Rubber Compos. 2015 ,44, 98–103.
[CrossRef]
116. Muñoz, C.Q.G.; M árquez, F.P .G.; Tom ás, J.M.S. Ice detection using thermal infrared radiometry on wind turbine blades. Measure-
ment 2016 ,93, 157–163. [CrossRef]
117. Sanati, H.; Wood, D.; Sun, Q. Condition monitoring of wind turbine blades using active and passive thermography. Appl. Sci.
2018 ,8, 2004. [CrossRef]
118. Hahn, F.; Kensche, C.W.; Paynter, R.J.H.; Dutton, A.G.; Kildegaard, C.; Kosgaard, J. Design, Fatigue Test and NDE of a Sectional
Wind Turbine Rotor Blade. J. Thermoplast. Compos. Mater. 2002 ,15, 267–277. [CrossRef]
119. Dutton, A.G. Thermoelastic stress measurement and acoustic emission mon-itoring in wind turbine blade testing. In Proceedings
of the European Wind Energy Conference, London, UK, 22–25 November 2004.
120. Martin, R.W.; Sabato, A.; Schoenberg, A.; Giles, R.H.; Niezrecki, C. Comparison of Nondestructive Testing Techniques for the
Inspection of Wind Turbine Blades’ Spar Caps. Wind Energy 2018 ,21, 980–996. [CrossRef]
121. Tchakoua, P .; Wamkeue, R.; Ouhrouche, M.; Slaoui-Hasnaoui, F.; Tameghe, T.A.; Ekemb, G. Wind turbine condition monitoring:
State-of-the-art review, new trends, and future challenges. Energies 2014 ,7, 2595–2630. [CrossRef]
122. Moll, J.; Arnold, P .; Mälzer, M.; Krozer, V .; Pozdniakov, D.; Salman, R.; Rediske, S.; Scholz, M.; Friedmann, H.; Nuber, A.
Radar-based structural health monitoring of wind turbine blades: The case of damage localization. Wind Energy 2018 ,21, 676–680.
123. Ye, G.; Neal, B.; Boot, A.; Kappatos, V .; Selcuk, C.; Gan, T.H. Development of an ultrasonic NDT system for automated in-situ
inspection of wind turbine blades. In Proceedings of the Seventh European Workshop on Structural Health Monitoring, Nantes,
France, 8–11 July 2014.
124. Yang, W. Testing and Condition Monitoring of Composite Wind Turbine Blades. In Recent Advances in Composite Materials for Wind
Turbines Blades ; Attaf, B., Ed.; The World Academic Publishing Co., Ltd.: Hong Kong, China, 2013; pp. 147–169.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 30 of 31
125. Tiwari, K.A.; Raisutis, R. Reﬁnement of defect detection in the contact and non-contact ultrasonic non-destructive testing of wind
turbine blade using guided waves. Procedia Struct. Integr. 2018 ,13, 1566–1570. [CrossRef]
126. Tiwari, K.A.; Raisutis, R. Post-processing of ultrasonic signals for the analysis of defects in wind turbine blade using guided
waves. J. Strain Anal. Eng. Des. 2018 ,53, 546–555. [CrossRef]
127. Tiwari, K.A.; Raisutis, R.; Samaitis, V . Hybrid signal processing technique to improve the defect estimation in ultrasonic
non-destructive testing of composite structures. Sensors 2017 ,17, 2858. [CrossRef]
128. Liu, Q.X.; Wang, Z.H.; Long, S.G.; Cai, M.; Wang, X.; Chen, X.Y.; Bu, J.L. Research on automatic positioning system of ultrasonic
testing of wind turbine blade ﬂaws. In IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science ; IOP Publishing: Sochi, Russia, 2017;
p. 012074.
129. Park, B.; Sohn, H.; Malinowski, P .; Ostachowicz, W. Delamination localization in wind turbine blades based on adaptive
time-of-ﬂight analysis of noncontact laser ultrasonic signals. Nondestr. Test. Eval. 2017 ,32, 1–20. [CrossRef]
130. Jiménez, A.A.; Muñoz, C.Q.G.; M árquez, F.P .G. Dirt and Mud Detection and Diagnosis on a Wind Turbine Blade Employing
Guided Waves and Supervised Learning Classiﬁers. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2018 ,184, 2–12. [CrossRef]
131. Lamarre, A. Improved Inspection of Composite Wind Turbine Blades with Accessible Advanced Ultrasonic Phased Array
Technology. In Proceedings of the 15th Asia Paciﬁc Conference for Non-destructive Testing (APCNDT2017), Singapore, 13–17
November 2017; pp. 1–8.
132. Li, T.; Yang, Y.; Gu, X.W.; Long, S.G.; Wang, Z.H. Quantitative research into millimetre-scale debonding defects in wind turbine
blade bonding structures using ultrasonic inspection: Numerical simulations. Insight-Non-Destr. Test. Cond. 2019 ,61, 316–323.
[CrossRef]
133. Zuo, H.; Yang, Z.; Xu, C.; Tian, S.; Chen, X. Damage identiﬁcation for plate-like structures using ultrasonic guided wave based on
improved music method. Compos. Struct. 2018 ,203, 164–171. [CrossRef]
134. Shoja, S.; Berbyuk, V .; Boström, A. Guided wave-based approach for ice detection on wind turbine blades. Wind Eng. 2018 ,42,
483–495. [CrossRef]
135. Michaels, T.E.; Michaels, J.E. Application of Acoustic Waveﬁeld Imaging to Non-Contact Ultrasonic Inspection of Bonded
Components. AIP Conf. Proc. 2006 ,820, 1484–1491.
136. Park, B.; An, Y.-K.; Sohn, H. Visualization of hidden delamination and debonding in composites through noncontact laser
ultrasonic scanning. Compos. Sci. Technol. 2014 ,100, 10–18. [CrossRef]
137. Oliveira, M.A.; Filho, E.F.S.; Albuquerque, M.C.; Santos, Y.T.; da Silva, I.C.; Farias, C.T. Ultrasound-based identiﬁcation of damage
in wind turbine blades using novelty detection. Ultrasonics 2020 ,108, 106166. [CrossRef]
138. Ciang, C.C.; Lee, J.R.; Bang, H.J. Structural health monitoring for a wind turbine system: A review of damage detection methods.
Meas. Sci. Technol. 2008 ,19, 122001. [CrossRef]
139. Amenabar, I.; Mendikute, A.; L ópez-Arraiza, A.; Lizaranzu, M.; Aurrekoetxea, J. Comparison and analysis of non-destructive
testing techniques suitable for delamination inspection in wind turbine blades. Compos. Part B Eng. 2011 ,42, 1298–1305. [CrossRef]
140. Grasse, F.; Trappe, V .; Thöns, S.; Said, S. Structural health monitoring of wind turbine blades by strain measurement and vibration
analysis. In Proceedings of the EURODYN 2011—8th International Conference on Structural Dynamics, Leuven, Belgium, 4–6
July 2011.
141. Adams, D.; White, J.; Rumsey, M.; Farrar, C. Structural health monitoring of wind turbines: Method and application to a HAWT.
Wind Energy 2011 ,14, 603–623. [CrossRef]
142. Tcherniak, D. Rotor anisotropy as a blade damage indicator for wind turbine structural health monitoring systems. Mech. Syst.
Signal Process. 2016 ,74, 183–198. [CrossRef]
143. Amezquita-Sanchez, J.P .; Adeli, H. Signal Processing Techniques for Vibration-Based Health Monitoring of Smart Structures.
Arch. Comput. Methods Eng. 2014 ,23, 1–15. [CrossRef]
144. Wang, Y.; Liang, M.; Xiang, J. Damage detection method for wind turbine blades based on dynamics analysis and mode shape
difference curvature information. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2014 ,48, 351–367. [CrossRef]
145. Dervilis, N.; Choi, M.; Taylor, S.G.; Barthorpe, R.J.; Park, G.; Farrar, C.R.; Worden, K. On damage diagnosis for a wind turbine
blade using pattern recognition. J. Sound Vib. 2014 ,333, 1833–1850. [CrossRef]
146. Skrimpas, G.A.; Kleani, K.; Mijatovic, N.; Sweeney, C.W.; Jensen, B.B.; Holboell, J. Detection of icing on wind turbine blades by
means of vibration and power curve analysis. Wind Energy 2016 ,19, 1819–1832. [CrossRef]
147. Ulriksen, M.D.; Tcherniak, D.; Kirkegaard, P .H.; Damkilde, L. Operational modal analysis and wavelet transformation for damage
identiﬁcation in wind turbine blades. Struct. Health Monit. 2016 ,15, 381–388. [CrossRef]
148. Doli ´ nski, Ł.; Krawczuk, M.; ˙Zak, A. Detection of delamination in laminate wind turbine blades using one-dimensional wavelet
analysis of modal responses. Shock Vib. 2018 ,2018 , 4507879. [CrossRef]
149. Zhang, L.; Liu, K.; Wang, Y.; Omariba, Z.B. Ice detection model of wind turbine blades based on random forest classiﬁer. Energies
2018 ,11, 2548. [CrossRef]
150. Ganeriwala, S.N.; Yang, J.; Richardson, M. Using modal analysis for detecting cracks in wind turbine blades. J. Sound Vib. 2011 ,
45, 10–13.
151. Tcherniak, D.; Mølgaard, L.L. Vibration-based SHM System: Application to Wind Turbine Blades. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2015 ,628,
012072. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672 31 of 31
152. Ou, Y.; Chatzi, E.N.; Dertimanis, V .K.; Spiridonakos, M.D. Vibration-based experimental damage detection of a small-scale wind
turbine blade. Struct. Health Monit. Int. J. 2016 ,16, 79–96. [CrossRef]
153. Avendano-Valencia, L.D.; Chatzi, E.N.; Tcherniak, D. Gaussian process models for mitigation of operational variability in the
structural health monitoring of wind turbines. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2020 ,142, 106686. [CrossRef]
154. Tcherniak, D.; Mølgaard, L.L. Active vibration-based structural health monitoring system for wind turbine blade: Demonstration
on an operating Vestas V27 wind turbine. Struct. Health Monit. 2017 ,16, 536–550. [CrossRef]
155. Li, D.; Ho, S.-C.M.; Song, G.; Ren, L.; Li, H. A review of damage detection methods for wind turbine blades. Smart Mater. Struct.
2015 ,24, 033001. [CrossRef]
156. Beganovic, N.; Söffker, D. Structural health management utilization for lifetime prognosis and advanced control strategy
deployment of wind turbines: An overview and outlook concerning actual methods, tools, and obtained results. Renew. Sustain.
Energy Rev. 2016 ,64, 68–83. [CrossRef]
157. Barlas, E.; Zhu, W.J.; Shen, W.Z.; Dag, K.O.; Moriarty, P . Consistent modelling of wind turbine noise propagation from source to
receiver. J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 2017 ,142, 3297–3310. [CrossRef]
158. Krause, T.; Ostermann, J. Damage detection for wind turbine rotor blades using airborne sound. Struct. Control Health Monit.
2020 ,27, e2520. [CrossRef]
159. Zhao, J.; Chen, B.; Li, Y.Z.; Gao, B.C. Acoustical crack feature extraction of turbine blades under complex background noise.
Beijing Youdian Daxue Xuebao/J. Beijing Univ. Posts Telecommun. 2017 ,40, 117–122.
160. Sun, S.; Wang, T.; Yang, H.; Chu, F. Damage identiﬁcation of wind turbine blades using an adaptive method for compressive
beamforming based on the generalized minimax-concave penalty function. Renew. Energy 2022 ,181, 59–70. [CrossRef]
161. Fazenda, B. Acoustic based condition monitoring of turbine blades. In Proceedings of the 18th International Congress on Sound
and Vibration, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 10–14 July 2011.
162. Fazenda, B.; Comboni Bustos, D. Acoustic condition monitoring of wind turbines: Tip faults. In Proceedings of the 9th
International Conference on Condition Monitoring and Machinery Failure Prevention Technologies, London, UK, 12–14 June
2012.
163. Krause, T.; Preihs, S.; Ostermann, J. Detection of Impulse-Like Airborne Sound for Damage Identiﬁcation in Rotor Blades of Wind
Turbines. In Proceedings of the EWSHM—7th European Workshop on Structural Health Monitoring, Nantes, France, 8–11 July
2014.
164. Krause, T.; Preihs, S.; Ostermann, J. Acoustic Emission Damage Detection for Wind Turbine Rotor Blades Using Airborne Sound.
In Proceedings of the 10th International Workshop on Structural Health Monitoring (IWSHM), Stanford, CA, USA, 1–3 September
2015.
165. Arora, V .; Wijnant, Y.H.; de Boer, A. Acoustic-based damage detection method. Appl. Acoust. 2014 ,80, 23–27. [CrossRef]
166. Poozesh, P .; Aizawa, K.; Niezrecki, C.; Baqersad, J.; Inalpolat, M.; Heilmann, G. Structural health monitoring of wind turbine
blades using acoustic microphone array. Struct. Health Monit. 2017 ,16, 471–485. [CrossRef]
167. Regan, T.; Beale, C.; Inalpolat, M. Wind Turbine Blade Damage Detection Using Supervised Machine Learning Algorithms. J. Vib.
Acoust. 2017 ,139, 061010–061014. [CrossRef]
168. Lam, H.F.; Ng, C.T.; Lee, Y.Y.; Sun, H.Y. System identiﬁcation of an enclosure with leakages using a probabilistic approach. J.
Sound Vib. 2009 ,322, 756–771. [CrossRef]
169. Canturk, R.; Inalpolat, M. A computational acoustic interrogation of wind turbine blades with damage. In Comsol Conference ;
University of Massachusetts: Lowell, MA, USA, 2015; pp. 7–9.
170. Beale, C.; Niezrecki, C.; Inalpolat, M. An adaptive wavelet packet denoising algorithm for enhanced active acoustic damage
detection from wind turbine blades. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2020 ,142, 106754. [CrossRef]
171. Holub, W.; Haßler, U. Evaluation of acquisition geometries for imaging of ondulations in glass–ﬁber reinforced materials. In
Proceedings of the International Conference on Industrial Computed Tomography, Wels, Austria, 25–28 February 2014.
172. Fantidis, J.; Potolias, C.; Bandekas, D. Wind turbine blade nondestructive testing with a transportable radiography system. Sci.
Technol. Nucl. Install. 2011 ,2011 , 347320. [CrossRef]
173. Francis, D. 4—Non-destructive evaluation (nde) of composites: Introduction to shearography. In Non-Destructive Evaluation (nde)
of Polymer Matrix Composites ; Karbhari, V .M., Ed.; Cranﬁeld University: Bedford, UK, 2013; pp. 56–83.
174. Rizk, P .; Younes, R.; Ilinca, A.; Khoder, J. Wind turbine blade defect detection using hyperspectral imaging. Remote Sens. Appl. Soc.
Environ. 2021 ,22, 100522. [CrossRef]
175. Nasiri, S.; Khosravani, M.R.; Weinberg, K. Fracture mechanics and mechanical fault detection by artiﬁcial intelligence methods: A
review. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2017 ,81, 270–293. [CrossRef]
176. Kyprianou, A.; Tjirkallis, A. Structural damage detection of a cantilever beam under varying temperature using a collection of
time series. Procedia Struct. Integr. 2017 ,5, 1192–1197. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
