Citation: Bejger, A.; Drzewieniecki,
J.B.; Bartoszko, P .; Frank, E. The Use
of Coherence Functions of Acoustic
Emission Signals as a Method for
Diagnosing Wind Turbine Blades.
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474. https://
doi.org/10.3390/en16227474
Academic Editors: Mahdi Ghane,
Surya Kandukuri, Omid Seryasat,
Afshin Abbasi and
Oscar Barambones
Received: 27 September 2023
Revised: 29 October 2023
Accepted: 3 November 2023
Published: 7 November 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
energies
Article
The Use of Coherence Functions of Acoustic Emission Signals
as a Method for Diagnosing Wind T urbine Blades
Artur Bejger1,*
, Jan Bohdan Drzewieniecki1,*
, Przemysław Bartoszko1,* and Ewelina Frank2
1Faculty of Marine Engineering, Maritime University of Szczecin, 71-650 Szczecin, Poland
2Windhunter Academy, Windhunter Group, 75-221 Koszalin, Poland; ef@windhunter.com
*Correspondence: a.bejger@pm.szczecin.pl (A.B.); j.drzewieniecki@pm.szczecin.pl (J.B.D.);
p.bartoszko@pm.szczecin.pl (P .B.)
Abstract: Acoustic emission (AE) is one of the methods of non-destructive evaluation (NDE), and
functions by means of detecting elastic waves caused by dynamic movements in AE sources, such as
cracking in various material structures. In the case of offshore wind turbines, the most vulnerable
components are their blades. Therefore, the authors proposed a method using AE to diagnose wind
turbine blades. In the identiﬁcation of their condition during monitoring, it was noted that the
changes characterising blade damage involve non-linear phenomena; hence, wave phenomena do
not occur in the principal components of the amplitudes or their harmonics. When the authors used
the inverse transformation in the signal analysis process, which essentially leads to ﬁnding a signal
measure, it allowed them to distinguish the wave spectrum of an undamaged system from one in
which the material structure of the blade was damaged. The characteristic frequencies of individual
phenomena interacting with the blade of a working turbine provide the basis for the introduction
of ﬁlters (or narrowband sensors) that will increase the quality of the diagnosis itself. Considering
the above, the use of the coherence function was proposed as an important measure of a diagnostic
signal, reﬂecting a given condition of the blade.
Keywords: wind turbine; blades of wind turbine; acoustic emission; blade failures; diagnostic of
wind turbine
1. Introduction
Causes of damage to rotating components include long-term exposure to a load,
i.e., fatigue wear of the material, but also tribological wear, and the formation of position
errors, such as misalignment of the mating mechanisms. As for blades, there are additional
factors caused by collisions with objects and lightning strikes. Offshore wind turbines are
additionally affected by the aggressive marine environment, as well as the irregularity of
the wind impacts and resonances generated by wave action.
According to Carrol et al. [ 1,2], the average failure rate of an offshore wind turbine is
8.3 failures per turbine per year. That includes 6.2 minor repairs (costs below EUR 1000),
1.1 major repairs (EUR 103–104), 0.43 major replacements, and 0.7 failures where no cost
data can be categorized. The blades are the ﬁfth biggest contributor to overall failure, with
6.2% (after the pitch and hydraulic system, auxiliary components, generator, and gearbox).
Analysing the most frequent failures of wind turbines, it can be concluded that four
main components of a wind turbine account for almost 70% of all of the failures that are
signiﬁcant from an operational point of view (Table 1). At the same time, failures generate
downtime, signiﬁcantly affecting the associated operating costs [3].
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474. https://doi.org/10.3390/en16227474 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 2 of 17
Table 1. Major component outage, typical downtimes [3].
Component Outage Days Downtime Onshore Days Downtime Offshore
Gearbox 30 41
Generator 21 32
Blade 30 41
Electronic unit 1 2
References [ 1,2,4] provide a basis for demonstrating that wind turbine blades are
the most vulnerable components, next to the gearbox and the generator. For onshore
turbines, the complete replacement of a damaged blade with a new one can cost up to USD
200,000 [ 4]. The use of a crane involves an additional cost of approximately USD 350,000
per week [ 4]. The costs associated with repairing or replacing offshore turbine blades are
many times higher. Additionally, offshore wind turbines require more complicated and
more expensive service to assess the condition or possible repair of the blades.
When analysing the possible means to solve this problem, a review of related publica-
tions was carried out. In addition, future trends and challenges related to structural health
monitoring systems in wind turbine blades were analysed. For example, Fausto Pedro,
García Márquez et al., in their paper [ 5], overviewed the most important and up-to-date
(according to the authors) condition-monitoring techniques based on non-destructive test-
ing applied to wind turbine blades. Next, reference [ 6] overviews methods related to the
investigation of turbine blades by means of vibration measurements, deformation, acoustic
emission signals, ultrasonic methods, or thermography. Another study [ 7] presents an
interesting approach to the recognition of external features of blade damage, based, among
others, on a statistical method using object detection with Haar features or the AdaBoost
algorithm. The importance of the problem related to repairs and the early detection of
blade damage is addressed in [ 4]. It states that relatively minor damage in the form of
surface erosion contributes to unplanned repairs or turbine downtime—several times more
often than, say, damage to the structure itself. Downtime can be reduced when turbines are
periodically diagnosed. Dhanraj and Sugumaran [ 8] proposed a method based on pattern
recognition, which consists of three phases, namely feature extraction, feature selection,
and feature classiﬁcation. They presented statistical features that were extracted from
vibration signals; feature selection was performed using a decision tree algorithm and
feature classiﬁcation was performed using a random tree algorithm. These authors propose
the use of acoustic emission signals and coherence functions as a method for diagnosing
wind turbine blade failures. The diagnostics of a wind turbine blade require inducing
a comparable force (or more precisely, stress), generating the formation of elastic waves.
Kaewniam et al., in their article [ 9], provided an overview based on ﬁve research areas:
signal response, features, sensors, NDT techniques, and testing methods. The research was
concerned with the testing of wind turbine blades (WTBs), which are the main components
of wind turbines but at the same time are susceptible to different types of damage due to
various environmental effects, fatigue loads, etc. Summarizing the studies in the literature
review, acoustic emission as a phenomenon is used by many researchers who propose
the use and comparison of source signals or classical methods using energy meters or AE
events, but a separate descriptor proposed by the authors of this article, the coherence
function, has not been used to diagnose blades so far. The method proposed by the authors
of this article is included in the chapters Assumptions of the Proposed Diagnostic Method
and Results.
Most modern wind turbine blades are made of ﬁbreglass reinforced with polyester or
epoxy resin, or polymers reinforced with glass, carbon, aramid, and basalt ﬁbres. Carbon
or Kevlar ﬁbre is also used as reinforcement (but this solution is very expensive, especially
for larger blades). Designing a blade is an extremely complex task (Figure 1). The blade
must have the following characteristics [10]:
 Sufﬁcient rigidity (so that blades do not collide with the tower in stronger gusts);
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 3 of 17
 Low mass, durability (it should last the entire life cycle of the power plant and, there-
fore, a minimum of 0 years for onshore power plants and 30 years for offshor e turbines );
 Low noise generation (the blade tip shape is vital, as it moves fastest);
 Resistance to soiling and icing (the blades are designed to withstand any additional
weight resulting from these factors or an anti-icing system is added);
 Shape to ensure adequate aerodynamic properties;
 Resistance to lightning.
The authors’ analysis, included in the chapter Downtime Case Analysis of Wind
Turbines Installed in Poland, also showed that the current time is particularly important
due to the fact that many wind turbines have been installed in Europe and have been
operating for a long time, so it has become important to determine the conditions of the
blades, which may be subject to microcracks or other forms of damage.
2. Materials and Methods
2.1. Downtime Case Analysis of Wind Turbines Installed in Poland
To conﬁrm the signiﬁcance of the wind turbine blade damage problem, the authors
have analysed 38 wind turbines installed in Poland. The examined turbines were of the
same type, made by the same manufacturer, and in their 3rd and 4th year of operation.
Downtime periods and associated causes were analysed (Table 2). In addition to turbine
outages related to damage, those caused by, for example, scheduled periodic maintenance
and warranty repairs, but also indirect external factors inﬂuencing the outage of the turbine,
such as the electricity consumption network, were also included. It is shown here that,
despite the relatively short service life of the turbines, blades are still a signiﬁcant and
important component associated with turbine damage.
Table 2. The most frequent causes of downtime of wind turbines in Poland in third and fourth year
of their operation in [h].
Unit Downtime [h] Percentage of Damage
Warranty repairs and periodic inspections 1647,03 25%
Grid 1440,10 22%
Yaw system 1221,70 18%
Blades 912,09 14%
Generator 787,99 12%
Gearbox 486,18 7%
Air brake 94,03 1%
Hydraulic systems 72,72 1%
Notably, the largest number of downtime hours was due to repairs and warranty
inspections, as well as periodic inspections required by Polish law (mainly equipment
under the supervision of the Ofﬁce of Technical Inspection) and power grid failures. These
factors account for as much as 45% of downtime in the operation of the wind farm under
study. From the point of view of the wind farm/plant owner, grid failures are the most
problematic, as they shut down the entire wind park. Elimination of such failures is beyond
control of the maintenance team. From the point of view of the wind turbine operator, these
are failures/shutdowns that are not even remotely predictable. Other troublesome units
are the nacelle yaw system and turbine blades.
The top six failures ranking in Table 2, account for 53% of wind turbine downtime.
Therefore, the authors proposed an analysis of one of the most important components in
terms of service-cost intensity, i.e., turbine blades.
Despite the installation of a lightning protection system in newer wind power plants,
lightning-related phenomena cannot be ruled out. When lightning hits an unprotected
blade which does not contain any metallic, conducting parts, it can discharge in one of
three locations. Energy dissipation can occur on the outside blade surface or in the inner
structure of the blade laminations. Lightning hitting the windmill blade usually creates a
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 4 of 17
type of damage that can be described as stitching. This phenomenon is well known and
some visual inspection can identify the problem, but there is no chance to help such a
situation without a proper protective system. This can cause damage to turbine blades
(blade tips are particularly vulnerable here).
An additional blade-related problem is servicing measurements related to the “quality”
of the lightning protection system. Service technicians face the practical difﬁculty of
assessing the lightning protection system or fully identifying the technical condition of the
lightning protection system. There are no unambiguous and simple methods by which a
service technician carrying out a periodic inspection can assess the condition of lightning
conductors. In addition, the authors stated in a previous publication [ 11] that lightning
can be one of the causes of stray currents, which in turn can be a major cause of damage
to one of the most expensive components in terms of replacement costs, namely turbine
gearboxes. As indicated before, lightning might be a cause of signiﬁcant damage to rotor
blades, despite appropriate safeguards.
The construction of a classic wind turbine blade is shown in Figure 1.
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW  4 of 17  
 blade which does not contain any metallic, conducting parts, it can discharge in one of 
three locations. Energy dissipation can occur on the outside blade surface or in the inner structure of the blade laminations. Lightning hitting the windmill blade usua lly creates a 
type of damage that can be described as stitching. This phenomen on is well known and 
some visual inspection can identify the problem , but there is no chance to help such a 
situation without a proper protective system. Th is can cause damage to  turbine blades 
(blade tips are particularly vulnerable here).  
An additional blade -related problem is servicing measurements related to the “ qual-
ity” of the lightning protection system. Service technicians face the  practical difficulty of 
assessing the lightning protection system  or fully identifying the technical condition of 
the lightning protection system. There are no unambiguous and simple methods by which a service technician carrying out a periodic inspection can assess the condition of lightning conductors. In addition, th e authors stated in a previous publicat ion [ 11] that lightning 
can be one of the causes of stray currents, which in turn can be a major cause of damage to one of the most expensive components in terms of replacement costs, namely turbine gearboxes. As indicated before, lightning might be a cause  of significant damage to rotor 
blades, despite appropriate safeguards.  
The construction of a classic wind turbine blade is shown in Figure 1.  
 
Figure 1. Structure of a wind turbine blade  (with permission  from  [12]): 1—root, 2 —shear web, 3 —
spar cap, 4 —shell, 5 —blade coating, 6—over -lamination, 7 —bonding . 
An analysis of the literature [4,6 ] confirms that the typical yet most common of  
turbine blades presented in Figure 2 are caused by : 
− Lightning strike;  
− Erosion of the trailing edge (in most cases)  [13,14] ; 
− Damage caused by microcracks and fatigue  [13,14 ]; 
− Icing (particularly significant in certain areas of turbine installation).  
Individual damage failures are often dependent on each other. For instance, damage 
caused by microcracks can occur due to icing of the turbine blade. The s plitting action of 
ice particles, in fact, causes delamination and subsequent cracking of the surface layer. In reference [15], an algorithm for diagnosing wind turbine  blade icing using hybrid features 
and the Stacked -XGBoost algorithm was proposed . 
Figure 1. Structure of a wind turbine blade (with permission from [ 12]): 1—root, 2—shear web,
3—spar cap, 4—shell, 5—blade coating, 6—over-lamination, 7—bonding.
An analysis of the literature [ 4,6] conﬁrms that the typical yet most common of turbine
blades presented in Figure 2 are caused by:
  Lightning strike;
  Erosion of the trailing edge (in most cases) [13,14];
  Damage caused by microcracks and fatigue [13,14];
  Icing (particularly signiﬁcant in certain areas of turbine installation).
Individual damage failures are often dependent on each other. For instance, damage
caused by microcracks can occur due to icing of the turbine blade. The splitting action of
ice particles, in fact, causes delamination and subsequent cracking of the surface layer. In
reference [ 15], an algorithm for diagnosing wind turbine blade icing using hybrid features
and the Stacked-XGBoost algorithm was proposed.
When considering the use of vibration signals in the diagnosis of important compo-
nents of a wind turbine, it is necessary to take into account the vibrations generated by
the blade bearings (also called angular contact/ pitch bearings), which are responsible
for rotating the blade at the desired angles in order to optimize electricity production.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 5 of 17
The method called empirical wavelet thresholding, used to extract weak signals of failure
occurrence, is described in [16].
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW  5 of 17  
 When considering the use of vibration signals in the diagnosis of important compo-
nents of a wind turbine, it is necessary to take into account the vibrations generated by 
the blade bearings (also called angular contact/ pitch bearings), which are responsib le for 
rotating the blade at the desired angles in order to optimize electricity production. The 
method called empirical wavelet thresholding, used to extract weak signals of failure oc-
currence,  is described in [ 16]. 
 
Figure 2. Typical wind turbine blade damage (upon  permission) [ 12]. 
During operation on land, and especially offshore in a marine environment, localized 
structures may appear in the tower column and blades. If the boundary values are ex-ceeded, the component may be damaged. The varying wind and wave impacts are a major 
cause of failures. These, in turn, significantly affect the safety of operation and operating costs associated with the elimination of damage. The authors of [ 17] also indicate an in-
verse relationship. They show that turbine blade damage significantly affects the gener-
ated vibration diagnostic signals received in the tower.  
A view showing the blade from the inside is presented in Figure 3a ,b. These drawings 
reveal possibilities of placing suitable measuring sensors for diagnosing (online  mode) 
possible damage, e.g. , microcracks.  
  
Figure 3. Inside view of a wind turbine blade  divided by shear web , (1) revealing possibilities of 
placing suitable measuring sensors for diagnosi s on lower (2) and upper (3) surface sandwich shell. 
Root section visible at the end of blade (4) . 
Each time a wind turbine is taken out of service, whether due to a failure or a planned 
inspection and maintenance shutdown, unproductive costs are generated. Wind -turbine 
condition monitoring along with machine learning tools has itself undergone many 
Figure 2. Typical wind turbine blade damage (upon permission) [12].
During operation on land, and especially offshore in a marine environment, localized
structures may appear in the tower column and blades. If the boundary values are exceeded,
the component may be damaged. The varying wind and wave impacts are a major cause
of failures. These, in turn, signiﬁcantly affect the safety of operation and operating costs
associated with the elimination of damage. The authors of [ 17] also indicate an inverse
relationship. They show that turbine blade damage signiﬁcantly affects the generated
vibration diagnostic signals received in the tower.
A view showing the blade from the inside is presented in Figure 3a,b. These drawings
reveal possibilities of placing suitable measuring sensors for diagnosing (online mode)
possible damage, e.g., microcracks.
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW  5 of 17  
 When considering the use of vibration signals in the diagnosis of important compo-
nents of a wind turbine, it is necessary to take into account the vibrations generated by 
the blade bearings (also called angular contact/ pitch bearings), which are responsib le for 
rotating the blade at the desired angles in order to optimize electricity production. The 
method called empirical wavelet thresholding, used to extract weak signals of failure oc-
currence,  is described in [ 16]. 
 
Figure 2. Typical wind turbine blade damage (upon  permission) [ 12]. 
During operation on land, and especially offshore in a marine environment, localized 
structures may appear in the tower column and blades. If the boundary values are ex-ceeded, the component may be damaged. The varying wind and wave impacts are a major 
cause of failures. These, in turn, significantly affect the safety of operation and operating costs associated with the elimination of damage. The authors of [ 17] also indicate an in-
verse relationship. They show that turbine blade damage significantly affects the gener-
ated vibration diagnostic signals received in the tower.  
A view showing the blade from the inside is presented in Figure 3a ,b. These drawings 
reveal possibilities of placing suitable measuring sensors for diagnosing (online  mode) 
possible damage, e.g. , microcracks.  
  
Figure 3. Inside view of a wind turbine blade  divided by shear web , (1) revealing possibilities of 
placing suitable measuring sensors for diagnosi s on lower (2) and upper (3) surface sandwich shell. 
Root section visible at the end of blade (4) . 
Each time a wind turbine is taken out of service, whether due to a failure or a planned 
inspection and maintenance shutdown, unproductive costs are generated. Wind -turbine 
condition monitoring along with machine learning tools has itself undergone many 
Figure 3. Inside view of a wind turbine blade divided by shear web ( a,b), (1) revealing possibilities of
placing suitable measuring sensors for diagnosis on lower (2) and upper (3) surface sandwich shell.
Root section visible at the end of blade (4).
Each time a wind turbine is taken out of service, whether due to a failure or a planned
inspection and maintenance shutdown, unproductive costs are generated. Wind-turbine
condition monitoring along with machine learning tools has itself undergone many de-
velopments and improvements over the decades. However, an analysis [ 7] has shown
that there is no standardized, certiﬁed, and accredited method of using a non-invasive
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 6 of 17
measurement technique to detect spots of potential damage in wind turbine blades. The use
of non-invasive methods in the wind power industry is primarily based on the wind turbine
operators’ own guidelines. The initial method of non-invasive damage detection was visual
inspection and measurement by technical personnel. Typically, the sensitivity threshold
here is quite low: damage is generally only seen (or heard) when it is at an advanced
stage of development. The elastic waves of acoustic emission for machine and system
diagnostics are used in the broadest sense [ 3,11,18]. Thus, the use of wave relationships, or
putting it more precisely, disturbances of the propagating elastic waves, was proposed and
preliminarily tested for diagnosing wind turbine blade damage.
Acoustic emission, by deﬁnition, is the phenomenon of spontaneous or stress-induced
elastic wave generation acting through plastic deformation, crack propagation, corrosion,
collision, erosion, or leakage. It belongs to the group of passive methods, i.e., the AE device
does not emit signals and does not affect the physical state of the object under test, but only
records the physical effects that arise spontaneously in the monitored object. The sources
of the acoustic emission elastic wave signal are, therefore, the formation and propagation
of micro-cracks, corrosion processes, and material cracking in prestressed structures, but
also internal material displacements. The elastic waves generated in the source propagate
from the source in all directions in the volume of the object to be monitored. The elastic
waves reach the sensor AE and are then transmitted to the analyser in the form of electrical
voltage changes. The measuring apparatus consists of an AE sensor that converts the signal
into a varying electrical voltage, an analyser that ampliﬁes this voltage and eliminates
signals not originating from the monitored source (acoustic background), and a device that
records the AE wave signal. The acoustic emission frequency ranges from a fraction of a
hertz to the order of a megahertz. Wang et al. [ 19] described methods for diagnosing wind
turbine blades using acoustic emissions. The results indicated that the best method for the
detection of defect source growth caused by fatigue damage was using the triangle method
to analyse the relative arrival time of the wave to the sensor with determination of the
location of the defect growth. Another approach to acoustical damage detection of the WTB
is presented by Chen et al. [ 20], who applied the improved incremental support vector data
description (SVDD) model. The physical method in combination with the ﬁlter and sliding
window is able to detect sound pulses of the WTB from among strong background noise.
The issue of using EA in the diagnosis of WTBs is most comprehensively described by Liu
in reference [ 21], while the list of strengths and weaknesses of the main methods based on
acoustic emission testing in WTB was formulated by Marquez and Chacon [5].
2.2. Assumptions of the Proposed Diagnostic Method
The method proposed by the authors of this article consists of placing a ‘line’ of
interconnected acoustic emission sensors, triggering a measurement when a certain wind
force is exceeded. An additional sensor (trigger) is connected to a stress sensor whose
output signal depends on the force applied to the turbine blade and which, after obtaining
the appropriate tension in the blade, starts the AE wave measurement process. This
ensures the measurement repeatability of the tested and obtained signals. In this way, the
signal triggers an acoustic emission measurement (Figure 4). This arrangement ensures
reproducible (comparable) conditions of the recorded elastic wave and allows for accurate
comparison (using the coherence function) of individual “sections” of the blade of the
diagnosed turbine. This makes it possible to precisely determine the place (location) of
damage or discontinuity in the material. In tests using elastic acoustic emission waves, most
measuring instruments have the possibility to set a so-called threshold value for the signal.
In this case, the threshold value would be adjusted (set by the service technician) depending
on where the turbine is installed—onshore or offshore, but could also be dependent on
the probability of damage, e.g., depending on the operating time of the blades. The
waveform recorded by such sensors at speciﬁed intervals is compared and analysed using
a consistency function. Wind energy, by deﬁnition, is the energy content of air ﬂow due
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 7 of 17
to its motion. This type of energy is called kinetic energy and is a function of mass and
velocity. The fundamental equation in wind power analysis is [22,23]:
P= 0.5 c pr pr2v3(1)
where cp—the coefﬁcient of performance (efﬁciency factor, in percent), r—air density (in
kg/m3),r—the blade length (in meters), and v—the wind speed (in m/s).
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW  7 of 17  
 waveform recorded by such sensors at specified intervals is compared and analysed using 
a consistency function.  Wind energy,  by definition , is the energy content of air flow due to 
its motion . This type of energy is called kinetic energy and is a function of mass and velocity. 
The fundamental equation in wind power analysis is [22,23]: 
P = 0.5 c p ρ π r2 v3 (1) 
where cp—the coefficient of performance (efficiency factor, in percent), ρ —air density (in 
kg/m3), r—the blade length (in meters) , and v—the wind speed (in m/s ). 
 
Figure 4. Scheme of design of the proposed diagnostic method targeting wind turbine blade damage.  
A power curve is made for each turbine, for which the output power is shown as a 
function of wind speed, where the rated (optimum) wind speed is highlighted. In the case 
of the scheme described in th is article, the rated value is assumed (for the turbine under 
consideration), thus ensuring a constant and , therefore,  repeatable internal tension of the 
turbine blade. In the simplest case, it is proposed to use a strain gauge sensor, which, when 
a specific blade stress value is exceeded, triggers the measureme nt of acoustic emission 
wave signals. In any case, it is possible to move the threshold of the stress value, which 
can depend on the design of a particular blade. Acoustic emission is generated by the 
corresponding state of stress acting on the internal st ructure. Disturbance of the signal 
changes the extracted dynamic system similarly to the application of modal analysis. By comparing the different ranges of emitted characteristic frequencies, we are able, using the coherence function, to determine the typ e of wave disturbance, and,  thus , the type of 
damage to the structure.  
The number of acoustic emission sensors installed depends on the length of the wind 
turbine blade. In the future, as technology develops, it may be possible to use a system of 
acoustic emission sensors installed every few tens of centimeters in a suitable composite 
Figure 4. Scheme of design of the proposed diagnostic method targeting wind turbine blade damage.
A power curve is made for each turbine, for which the output power is shown as a
function of wind speed, where the rated (optimum) wind speed is highlighted. In the case
of the scheme described in this article, the rated value is assumed (for the turbine under
consideration), thus ensuring a constant and, therefore, repeatable internal tension of the
turbine blade. In the simplest case, it is proposed to use a strain gauge sensor, which, when
a speciﬁc blade stress value is exceeded, triggers the measurement of acoustic emission
wave signals. In any case, it is possible to move the threshold of the stress value, which
can depend on the design of a particular blade. Acoustic emission is generated by the
corresponding state of stress acting on the internal structure. Disturbance of the signal
changes the extracted dynamic system similarly to the application of modal analysis. By
comparing the different ranges of emitted characteristic frequencies, we are able, using
the coherence function, to determine the type of wave disturbance, and, thus, the type of
damage to the structure.
The number of acoustic emission sensors installed depends on the length of the
wind turbine blade. In the future, as technology develops, it may be possible to use a
system of acoustic emission sensors installed every few tens of centimeters in a suitable
composite ﬁbre mounted in the turbine blade, similar to Fiber Bragg grating (FBG) sensors,
which are commonly used for strain detection [ 24]. Once the sensor is subjected to stress
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 8 of 17
or temperature changes, the grating pitch changes, which affects the wavelength of the
reﬂected light to meet the detection requirements.
The actual tests addressed the most typical blade damage, i.e., blade leading-edge
spalling and general surface defects. The essence of turbine blade diagnostics is shown
in Figure 5. An acoustic emission recorder designed and manufactured at the Maritime
University of Szczecin was used for the tests. In addition, to verify the correctness of the
device’s operation, tests were carried out using a Pocket AE—Portable AE System type
recorder from MISTRAS and a Wave 1002 measurement system from Vallen.
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 17  
 fibre mounted in the turbine blade, s imilar to Fiber Bragg grating (FBG) sensors , which 
are commonly used for strain detection [ 24]. Once the sensor is subjected to stress or tem-
perature changes, the grating pitch changes, which affects the wavelength of the reflected 
light to meet the detection requirements.  
The actual tests addressed the most typical blade damage, i.e. , blade leading- edge 
spalling and general surface defects. The essence of turbine blade diagnostics is shown in 
Figure 5. An acoustic emission recorder designed and manufactured at the Maritime  
University of Szczecin was used for the tests. In addition, to verify the correctness of the 
device ’s operation, tests were carried out using a Pocket AE—Portable AE System type 
recorder from MISTRAS and a Wave 1002 measurement system from Vallen.  
 
Figure 5. Algorithm for wind -turbine blade diagnostics using elastic waves . 
The elastic wave generated in the blade arrives at a trigger which, when it exceeds a 
preset threshold value, triggers a measurement with the AE sensors. The signals from the 
individual sensors reach the recorder, where they are, by means of a coherence fu nction, 
compared with a reference wave (defect -free material). Its low value (not exceeding an 
average value of 0.8) in the band above 25 kHz indicates a high probability of damage to the wind turbine blade. The summed value of the coherence function is indicative of blade damage, while its detailed location is related to the identification of the specific AE sensor giving the highest deviation in  the described descriptor. Figure 6 presents the measure-
ment method and the location of the single AE sensor  during the survey . 
Vallen acoustic emission sensors were used in th is study. However, similar results 
have been obtained using other sensors (with a similar frequency band), such as those from Physical Acoustics Corp. At present, there is no ready -made measurement system. 
To the authors ’ knowledge, systems of interconnected AE microsensors spaced every few 
tens of centimeters in a fibre- optic element are already in laboratory testing. However, 
this is an element of the measurement path that can be modified in the future. The essence here is the method itself and the possibility of using it in damage analysis. The method 
described is a proposal that represents a possibility for identifying the condition of the blade under test. The use of a specific type of sensor is a separate area of research. In their 
work, the authors wanted to test and verify the essence of the proposed method for iden-
tifying the state of the blade and the effect of obtaining a correct diagnosis.    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
AE Sensors  trigger  Stress of wind power  Exceeding the threshold value 
originating from the blade tension 
under wind force, forcing an elastic 
wave AE   
AE recorder  coherence 
function  analyse  
Figure 5. Algorithm for wind-turbine blade diagnostics using elastic waves.
The elastic wave generated in the blade arrives at a trigger which, when it exceeds a
preset threshold value, triggers a measurement with the AE sensors. The signals from the
individual sensors reach the recorder, where they are, by means of a coherence function,
compared with a reference wave (defect-free material). Its low value (not exceeding an
average value of 0.8) in the band above 25 kHz indicates a high probability of damage to
the wind turbine blade. The summed value of the coherence function is indicative of blade
damage, while its detailed location is related to the identiﬁcation of the speciﬁc AE sensor
giving the highest deviation in the described descriptor. Figure 6 presents the measurement
method and the location of the single AE sensor during the survey.
Vallen acoustic emission sensors were used in this study. However, similar results
have been obtained using other sensors (with a similar frequency band), such as those from
Physical Acoustics Corp. At present, there is no ready-made measurement system. To the
authors’ knowledge, systems of interconnected AE microsensors spaced every few tens of
centimeters in a ﬁbre-optic element are already in laboratory testing. However, this is an
element of the measurement path that can be modiﬁed in the future. The essence here is
the method itself and the possibility of using it in damage analysis. The method described
is a proposal that represents a possibility for identifying the condition of the blade under
test. The use of a speciﬁc type of sensor is a separate area of research. In their work, the
authors wanted to test and verify the essence of the proposed method for identifying the
state of the blade and the effect of obtaining a correct diagnosis.
The acoustic emission signal, in the form of an elastic wave, was generated by means
of a repetitive pulse generated on the surface of the blade. Figure 7 shows the source
signal—the pulse generated in an intact part. A clear difference in the time signal was
recorded for an identical excitation in a blade with a defective leading edge (Figure 8).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 9 of 17
This provided grounds to suppose that a noticeable change in the generated (reaching
the sensor) energy value of the recorded waveform could also be expected. The RMS (root
mean square) value of the two signals was therefore compared [25].
RMS =s
1
TZT
0x2(t)dt (2)
where x(t) is the value of the signal over a speciﬁc time interval.
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW  9 of 17  
  
Figure 6. Damage to the leading edge of a wind turbine blade and a diagram of the acoustic emission 
signal measurement.  
The acoustic emission signal, in the form of an elastic wave, was generated by means 
of a repetitive pulse generated on the surface of the blade. Figure 7 shows the source sig-
nal—the pulse generated in an intact part. A clear difference in the time signal was rec-
orded for an identical excitation in a blade with a defective leading edge (Figure 8). 
    
Figure 7. Time  signal , EA amplitude —voltage value [μV] —blade without damage .  
  
tension due 
to wind force  
damage  
AE Sensor  
Figure 6. Damage to the leading edge of a wind turbine blade and a diagram of the acoustic emission
signal measurement.
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 9 of 17 
 
  
Figure 6. Damage to the leading edge of a wind turbine blade and a diagram of the acoustic emission 
signal measurement.  
The acoustic emission signal, in the form of an elastic wave, was generated by means 
of a repetitive pulse generated on the surface of the blade. Figure 7 shows the source sig-
nal—the pulse generated in an intact part. A clear difference in the time signal was rec-orded for an identical excitation in a bla de with a defective leading edge (Figure 8). 
 
Figure 7. Time signal, EA amplitude—voltage value [ μV]—blade without damage . 
Figure 7. Time signal, EA amplitude—voltage value [ V]—blade without damage.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 10 of 17
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 10 of 17 
 
  
Figure 8. Time signal, EA amplitude—voltage value [ μV]—blade with a damaged leading edge.  
This provided grounds to suppose that a no ticeable change in the generated (reach-
ing the sensor) energy value of the recorded waveform could also be expected. The RMS 
(root mean square) value of the two signals was therefore compared [25].  
𝑅𝑀𝑆 = ටଵ
்׬𝑥ଶ(𝑡)𝑑𝑡்
଴  (2)
where x(t) is the value of the signal over a specific time interval. 
In the simplest interpretation, RMS (as a me asure of the periodically changing volt-
age signal generated at the AE sensor) determ ines the energy parameters of a signal. In 
the experiment, for the signal from the dama ged part of the blade, the RMS value was 
2469, while, for the same pulse in the part without defects, the RMS value was 2764. This 
difference can be explained in a relatively simp le way. In the blade under test, at the point 
of damage to the leading edge, there is a change in the elastic characteristics, part of the 
energy of the wave reaching the sensor is scattered and reflected. The arriving AE source 
wave in the damaged area will, therefore, be  disturbed and scattered and, consequently, 
its RMS value will decrease. 
In order to determine the type of damage (for the application of online diagnosis) in 
an operating turbine, a more sophisticated method of signal analysis is, therefore, pro-
posed. From a theoretical point of view, co mponents made of high-strength composites 
tend to have strongly non-linear dynamic char acteristics and their material constants e.g., 
equivalent Young’s modulus, are dependent on the magnitude and rate of the strain in a 
different manner than in commonly used rheological models (Voigt model) [25]: 
𝐸௔௟௧=𝑓(𝑥, 𝑥ሶ) 𝑓=? (3)
where 𝐸௔௟௧ defines some replacement energy value; f(x) is a function of the solution vector 
of the system of differential equations (assuming that these equations exist). In the given 
equation, it is a non-linear  function of the variable  concerning displacements x and veloc-
ity ẋ. 
If we assume that a system such as a wind  turbine blade can be described by a math-
ematical function, even slight damage to the structure will change the elastic characteris-
tics of this system. Consequently, there may be a change in the non-linear part of this 
characteristic for at least one generalised coor dinate. Even if the damage does not generate 
any external symptoms (because only an internal crack will occur), there should be a 
change in the elastic characteristics of the syst em under test. In the course of this research, 
the authors’ basic guideline was to look for a measure of the signal propagating through 
the turbine blade structure, wh ich would be defined on the non-linear part of the spec-
trum. Particularly in the case of an offshore po wer plant, it is possible to determine (find) 
stable (for comparable reference conditions) blade stresses under the influence of the act-
ing wind. 
Figure 8. Time signal, EA amplitude—voltage value [ V]—blade with a damaged leading edge.
In the simplest interpretation, RMS (as a measure of the periodically changing voltage
signal generated at the AE sensor) determines the energy parameters of a signal. In the
experiment, for the signal from the damaged part of the blade, the RMS value was 2469,
while, for the same pulse in the part without defects, the RMS value was 2764. This
difference can be explained in a relatively simple way. In the blade under test, at the point
of damage to the leading edge, there is a change in the elastic characteristics, part of the
energy of the wave reaching the sensor is scattered and reﬂected. The arriving AE source
wave in the damaged area will, therefore, be disturbed and scattered and, consequently, its
RMS value will decrease.
In order to determine the type of damage (for the application of online diagnosis)
in an operating turbine, a more sophisticated method of signal analysis is, therefore,
proposed. From a theoretical point of view, components made of high-strength composites
tend to have strongly non-linear dynamic characteristics and their material constants e.g.,
equivalent Young’s modulus, are dependent on the magnitude and rate of the strain in a
different manner than in commonly used rheological models (Voigt model) [25]:
Ealt=f 
x,.x
f=? (3)
where Ealtdeﬁnes some replacement energy value; f(x) is a function of the solution vec-
tor of the system of differential equations (assuming that these equations exist). In the
given equation, it is a non-linear function of the variable concerning displacements xand
velocity.x.
If we assume that a system such as a wind turbine blade can be described by a mathe-
matical function, even slight damage to the structure will change the elastic characteristics
of this system. Consequently, there may be a change in the non-linear part of this charac-
teristic for at least one generalised coordinate. Even if the damage does not generate any
external symptoms (because only an internal crack will occur), there should be a change
in the elastic characteristics of the system under test. In the course of this research, the
authors’ basic guideline was to look for a measure of the signal propagating through the
turbine blade structure, which would be deﬁned on the non-linear part of the spectrum.
Particularly in the case of an offshore power plant, it is possible to determine (ﬁnd) stable
(for comparable reference conditions) blade stresses under the inﬂuence of the acting wind.
The coherence function deﬁnes a linear relationship between two signals, a(t) and
b(t), for a given frequency. Thus, it determines the degree of relationship between two
signals by means of a linear function. The ordinary coherence function speciﬁed as part of
the output signal is shaped by a linear transformation of the input signal. The coherence
function is used to verify whether a linear relationship between two waveforms applies in
a particular case. High coherence for a given frequency indicates that the two signals for
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 11 of 17
that frequency have a high power concentration. The two functions are only equal to each
other for an undistorted linear system. In any other case, the coherence function is less
than unity. This function between two continuous waveforms, a(t) and b(t), is expressed by
the equation [25]:
gab(w)=jSab(w)jp
Sa(w)Sb(w)(4)
where Sa(w)is a power spectrum of the signal a(t),Sb(w)is a power spectrum of the signal
b(t), and Sab(w)is a spectrum of the reciprocal power of the signals a(t) and b(t).
A high coherence for a given frequency indicates that the two signals for that frequency
have a high power concentration. The coherence varies between 0 and 1. If ab(w) is
equal to 0 for all frequencies, it means that the functions a(t) and b(t) are uncorrelated
for all frequencies. If gab(w) is equal to 1 for all frequencies, the functions are fully
correlated [ 25,26]. Coherence is proportional to the ratio of the level of the useful signal
to the sum of the levels of the useful signal and the interfering signal (interference, wave
dispersion). In other words, coherence is an indicator of the ratio of the useful signal to
the noise (or more precisely to the total signal, i.e., useful signal plus noise), as a function
of frequency. It can be assumed that coherence informs us about the ‘quality’ of the
useful signal, i.e., the level of interference from unwanted signals. Unwanted or otherwise
destructive interference results in the extinction or weakening of the useful signal.
In a classical frequency analysis, using the coherence function, we can isolate distur-
bances at the input or output of a system in a relatively simple way, provided that we
know beforehand which type of disturbance is present. The problem, however, is how
to interpret low values of the coherence function when the system is non-linear. If the
coherence function is greater than zero but less than unity, it follows that:
  The system binding the signals together is non-linear;
  There are other unknown signals at the input of the system besides the observed
input signal.
The appearance of a ‘new fault’ signal violates the coherence of the previous ones,
which causes the coherence function to decrease.
3. Results
In the practical search for a diagnostic symptom, it is possible to ﬁnd a measure
indicating that some damage exists on the basis of a comparative analysis of the elastic
waves of acoustic emission for a blade with and without damage. Analyzing the studied
characteristics of the waveforms presented in Figures 7 and 8, using the coherence function,
three clearly distinguished zones can be noticed in the obtained spectrum of the elastic
wave signal of acoustic emission (Figure 9). The ﬁrst one concerns the lowest harmonics,
which can be described by continuous linear equations. In this zone, the inﬂuence of the
wind force acting on the blade is signiﬁcant. The second one is the zone of non-linear
interactions associated with the turbulence of the turbine column and the vibrations of
the blade itself, and the third zone relates mainly to surface, longitudinal, and transverse
waves. The impacts in the non-linear zones are repeatable for speciﬁc boundary conditions
and should be sensitive to different types of structural disturbance. They will, therefore, be
related to the measurable value of the wave and wind impact cycle. If we deﬁne the wave
signal for an undamaged blade as Ymand the signal with the looked for damage as Yn, the
search for the difference can be written as [25]:
Y(w,Qm)=åPk(w)Hk(qi,zi)+F(Qm)+Y (5)
Y(w,Qn)=åPk(w)Hk(qi,zi)+F(Qn)+Y (6)
where F—function vector identifying the initial state of the system, P(w) is an excitation
spectrum or power spectral density, His the spectral transmittance, and Yis a measurement
of the noise.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 12 of 17
Hence, the difference in the two signals is [25]:
DmnY(!)= F(Qm)+F(qi,Qn)+Y=DF(qi,Qm,Qn,Y) (7)
Therefore [25]:
qi=
DF) 1DmnX(Qm,Qn,Y) (8)
where qiis the damage parameter, and X represents the combined transformations of the
output and input signals.
However, it becomes important to determine the inverse transformation ( DF) 1which,
in fact, leads to the ﬁnding of a signal measure (descriptor) that allows the wave spectra of
a system to be distinguished: for one without damage and for one in which a structural
disturbance has occurred.
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 17 
 
 𝑌(𝜔, Θ ௠)=෍ 𝑃 ௞(𝜔)∙𝐻௞(𝑞௜,𝑧௜)+𝛷∗(𝛩௠)+𝛹 (5)
𝑌(𝜔, 𝛩 ௡)=෍ 𝑃 ௞(𝜔)∙𝐻௞(𝑞௜,𝑧௜)+𝛷∗(𝛩௡)+𝛹 (6)
where Φ—function vector identifying the initial state of the system, P(ω) is an excitation 
spectrum or power spectral density, H is the spectral transmittance, and Ψ is a measure-
ment of the noise. 
Hence, the difference in the two signals is [25]: 
Δ୫୬Y(ω)=− 𝛷∗(𝛩௠)+𝛷∗(𝑞௜,𝛩௡)+ 𝛹=𝛥 𝛷∗(𝑞௜,𝛩௠,𝛩௡,𝛹 ) (7)
Therefore [25]: 
𝑞௜=( Δ 𝛷∗)ିଵΔ௠௡𝑋(𝛩 ௠,𝛩௡,𝛹 ) (8)
where qi is the damage parameter, and X represen ts the combined transformations of the 
output and input signals. 
However, it becomes important to determine the inverse transformation ( ΔΦ)−1 
which, in fact, leads to the finding of a signal measure (descriptor) that allows the wave 
spectra of a system to be distinguished: fo r one without damage and for one in which a 
structural disturbance has occurred. 
 
Figure 9. AE wave spectrum of the coherence function for signals from a wind turbine: left section 
up to approximately 15 kHz—zone associated with vibrations of the column or nacelle, middle zone 
between 15 kHz and 25 kHz—phenomena characteristic of the non-stationarity of the wind force, 
right section above 25 kHz—indicates damage to the wind turbine blade.  (Y-axis—dimensionless 
unit, equal to 1 when dealing with two identical signals). 
The expected changes concern non-linear ph enomena. Hence, we can expect that the 
observed changes are unlikely to occur in th e principal components of the amplitudes or 
harmonics. As previously stated, the coherenc e function for the tested blade clearly indi-
cates the existence of three distinct spectra. Th e tested acoustic emission signal is perceived 
as surface, longitudinal, and transverse wave components. A careful analysis of the char-acteristic frequencies clearly distinguishes th e band associated with the discontinuity of 
the blade material. It can, therefore, be concluded that, in this case, the band above 25 kHz 
Figure 9. AE wave spectrum of the coherence function for signals from a wind turbine: left section
up to approximately 15 kHz—zone associated with vibrations of the column or nacelle, middle zone
between 15 kHz and 25 kHz—phenomena characteristic of the non-stationarity of the wind force,
right section above 25 kHz—indicates damage to the wind turbine blade. (Y-axis—dimensionless
unit, equal to 1 when dealing with two identical signals).
The expected changes concern non-linear phenomena. Hence, we can expect that the
observed changes are unlikely to occur in the principal components of the amplitudes
or harmonics. As previously stated, the coherence function for the tested blade clearly
indicates the existence of three distinct spectra. The tested acoustic emission signal is per-
ceived as surface, longitudinal, and transverse wave components. A careful analysis of the
characteristic frequencies clearly distinguishes the band associated with the discontinuity of
the blade material. It can, therefore, be concluded that, in this case, the band above 25 kHz
is characteristic of the disturbance created by the damage to the leading edge of the turbine
blade. To make the characteristic bands more visible, Figure 9 shows the spectrum of the
coherence function with the individual phenomena clearly separated. The lower frequency
values (up to approximately 15 kHz) are, therefore, the zone associated with vibrations of
the column or possible damage related to devices located in the nacelle, the second zone
(between 15 kHz and 25 kHz) entails phenomena characteristic of the non-stationarity of
the wind force, while the highest frequencies (above 25 kHz) indicate damage to the wind
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 13 of 17
turbine blade. In order to analyze, especially, the ﬁrst zone (up to 15 kHz) and locate the
cause of the disruption/damage, it would be necessary to compare the data to those read
from the vibration sensors located on the column, or to perform full diagnostics of the
equipment systems or, in general, devices located in the nacelle. Using wavelet analysis of
the considered AE signals, the existence of characteristic frequencies associated with the
damage was conﬁrmed—Figure 10.
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW  13 of 17  
 is characteristic of the disturbance created by the damage to the leading edge of the turbine 
blade. To make the characteristic bands more visible, Figure 9 shows the spectrum of the coherence function with the individual phenomena clearly separated . The lower frequency 
values (up to approximately 15 kHz) are , therefore,  the zone associated with vibrations of 
the column or possible damage related to devices located in the nacelle, the second zone (between 15 kHz and 25 kHz) entails phenomena characteristic of the non- stationarity of 
the wind force, while the highest frequencies (above 25 kHz) indicate damage to the wind turbine blade. In order to analyze,  especially,  the first zone (up to 15 kHz) and locate the 
cause of the disruption/damage, it would be necessary to compare the data  to those  read 
from the vibration sensor s located on the column,  or to perform full diagnostics of the 
equipment systems or, in general, devices located in the nacelle. Using wavelet analysis of the considered AE signals, the existence of characteristic frequencies associated with  the 
damage was confirmed —Figure 10.  
 
Figure 10. Amplitude –time –frequency spectrum of the coherence function with clearly separated 
characteristic bands  (Z-axis—dimensionless unit , equal to 1 when dealing with two identical sig-
nals).  
To verify the test results, the authors performed a comparative wavelet analysis of 
the blade without defects and the section with the previously described damage. The 
wavelet analysis (Figure 11) also confirms the existence of clearly defined bands associ-
ated with the damage.  
Figure 10. Amplitude–time–frequency spectrum of the coherence function with clearly separated
characteristic bands (Z-axis—dimensionless unit, equal to 1 when dealing with two identical signals).
To verify the test results, the authors performed a comparative wavelet analysis of the
blade without defects and the section with the previously described damage. The wavelet
analysis (Figure 11) also conﬁrms the existence of clearly deﬁned bands associated with
the damage.
In the band for 25–45 kHz, the inﬂuence of blade faults can be observed. This type of
spectrum in the indicated frequency band results from the formation of additional signal
sources associated with wave reﬂections. The fault (material discontinuity) generates a
component of acoustic emission energy that is visible as wavelet coefﬁcients (which are a
function of scale and position) with an extended duration. This is mainly due to internal
reﬂections of the elastic wave, which generates additional (visible in the ﬁgure) frequency
bands of the AE signal.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 14 of 17
Energies 2023 , 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW  14 of 17  
  
 
Figure 11. Wavelet analysis of elastic wave  acoustic emission measurements for a blade . Upper : 
without defects and lower : with a defect.  
Figure 11. Wavelet analysis of elastic wave acoustic emission measurements for a blade. Upper:
without defects and lower: with a defect.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 15 of 17
4. Conclusions
Damage to wind turbine blades signiﬁcantly contributes to downtime of the entire
power plant. The acoustic emission signal in the blade, loaded with wind force, is examined,
which in turn is perceived as the surface, longitudinal, and transverse components of the
wave. Research shows that, in selected frequency bands (usually at high or very high
frequencies—above 25 kHz), the coherence function is sensitive to even minor damage
to the blade surface structure. The entire band associated with severe blade damage
occurs in the 25–45 kHz range. It is shown that there is a clear spectral characteristic of
the damaged blade, and the coherence function of the tested blade clearly indicates the
existence of three distinct bands. The ﬁrst band concerns the lowest harmonics (i.e., related
to the transmission of low-frequency vibrations, e.g., through a wind turbine tower or the
failure of gears or other devices in the nacelle), the second band is the zone of non-linear
interactions (related, among others, to the non-stationarity of wave or wind action), and
the third band is associated with the clearly visible elastic wave spectrum in the acoustic
emission associated with the blade failure.
These characteristic frequencies of individual phenomena interacting with the blade of
a working turbine provide the basis for the introduction of ﬁlters (or narrowband sensors)
that will increase the quality of the diagnosis itself. Further research by the authors leading
to determining the type of damage will consist of narrowing down and detecting frequency
bands that are characteristic of various (speciﬁc) discontinuities. Although the method has
been veriﬁed for a speciﬁc type of damage to the leading edge, development of the analysis
will allow for the precise extraction and identiﬁcation of the frequencies responsible for
the comprehensive and detailed identiﬁcation of a given type of damage in the veriﬁed
and described characteristic band. Moreover, the proposed diagnostic method, in addition
to identifying blade damage in the form of “with or without defects”, allows for ﬁnding
the frequencies responsible for the operation of devices installed in the nacelle. This, in
turn, generates a process of accurate diagnosis (separating overlapping phenomena) using
known methods, e.g., vibration, or possibly stopping the turbine when it is determined
that the permissible values have been exceeded.
The above conclusions indicate that the proposed coherence function is capable of
being suitable for the requirement of the online crack detection of WTBs in the ﬁeld with
instant results. The outcomes of this research provide a potential tool for service engineers
equipped with portable HD PC to analyze measured AE signals during monitoring to
detect damages that may occur in wind turbine blades at each stage of operation, including
quality control after production.
The accuracy and reliability of acoustic emission technology for wind turbine blade
inspection is a matter of using appropriate AE signal recorder ﬁlters. Moreover, by using
appropriate sensors, it is possible to non-invasively and remotely determine the precise lo-
cation of the blade damage. It is likely that the development of interconnected microsensors
will signiﬁcantly improve the application of the diagnostic method proposed by the authors.
Using a matrix of interconnected sensors placed over the entire blade would be an ideal
solution. This would be a measurement similar to those currently used in diagnosis which
use acoustic emission, e.g., of pressure vessels. However, the use of the coherence function
itself expands the possibilities by quickly recognizing the frequency bands associated with
the relevant damage and excluding possible "parasitic" signals coming from sources other
than the blade.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, A.B.; methodology, A.B.; validation, A.B. and J.B.D.;
formal analysis, A.B., J.B.D., P .B. and E.F.; investigation, A.B. and J.B.D.; resources, A.B., J.B.D., P .B.
and E.F.; data curation, A.B., J.B.D. P .B. and E.F.; writing—original draft preparation, A.B. and J.B.D.;
writing—review and editing, A.B., J.B.D., E.F.; supervision, A.B. All authors have read and agreed to
the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 16 of 17
Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available on request from the
corresponding author. These data have not been the subject of any publication yet.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; McMillan, D. Failure rate, repair time and unscheduled O&M cost analysis of offshore wind turbines.
Wind Energy 2016 ,19, 1107–1119. [CrossRef]
2. Mishnaevsky, L., Jr.; Thomsen, K. Costs of repair of wind turbine blades: Inﬂuence of technology aspects. Wind Energy 2020 ,23,
2247–2255. [CrossRef]
3. McMillan, D.; Ault, G.W. Quantiﬁcation of Condition Monitoring Beneﬁt for Offshore Wind Turbines. Wind Energy 2007 ,31,
267–285. [CrossRef]
4. Katsaprakakis, D.A.; Papadakis, N.; Ntintakis, I. A Comprehensive Analysis of Wind Turbine Blade Damage. Energies 2021 ,
14, 5974. [CrossRef]
5. Márquez, F.P .G.; Chac ón, A.M.P . A review of non-destructive testing on wind turbines blades. Renew. Energy 2020 ,161, 998–1010.
[CrossRef]
6. Du, Y.; Zhou, S.; Jing, X.; Peng, Y.; Wu, H.; Kwok, N. Damage detection techniques for wind turbine blades: A review. Mech. Syst.
Signal Process. 2020 ,141, 106445. [CrossRef]
7. Guo, J.; Liu, C.; Cao, J.; Jiang, D. Damage identiﬁcation of wind turbine blades with deep convolutional neural networks. Renew.
Energy 2021 ,174, 122–133. [CrossRef]
8. Dhanraj, J.; Sugumaran, V . Fault Diagnosis for Wind Turbine Blade through Vibration Signals Using Statistical Features and
Random Forest Algorithm. Int. J. Pharm. Technol. 2017 ,9, 28684–28696.
9. Kaewniam, P .; Cao, M.; Alkayem, N.F.; Li, D.; Manoach, E. Recent advances in damage detection of wind turbine blades: A
state-of-the-art review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2022 ,167, 112723. [CrossRef]
10. Available online: https://elektrownie-tanio.net/lopaty.html,%20&#x141;opaty%20wirnika (accessed on 25 November 2022).
(In Polish)
11. Bejger, A.; Frank, E.; Bartoszko, P . Failure Analysis of Wind Turbine Planetary Gear. Energies 2021 ,14, 6768. [CrossRef]
12. Wind Turbine Blade Repair and Structural Proﬁles. Available online: https://www.gurit.com/en/our-business/industries{-}{-}m
arkets/wind (accessed on 11 April 2022).
13. Zhang, R.G.; Wang, B.J.; Wang, J.B.; Lei, H.; Xia, S.C. Wind turbine blade failure case analysis and control measures. J. Phys. Conf.
Ser.2021 ,2047 , 012014. [CrossRef]
14. Dimitrova, M.; Aminzadeh, A.; Meiabadi, M.S.; Karganroudi, S.S.; Taheri, H.; Ibrahim, H. A Survey on Non-Destructive Smart
Inspection of Wind Turbine Blades Based on Industry 4.0 Strategy. Appl. Mech. 2022 ,3, 1299–1326. [CrossRef]
15. Tao, T.; Liu, Y.; Qiao, Y.; Gao, L.; Lu, J.; Zhang, C.; Wang, Y. Wind turbine blade icing diagnosis using hybrid features and
Stacked-XGBoost algorithm. Renew. Energy 2021 ,180, 1004–1013. [CrossRef]
16. Liu, Z.; Zhang, L.; Carrasco, J. Vibration analysis for large-scale wind turbine blade bearing fault detection with an empirical
wavelet thresholding method. Renew. Energy 2020 ,146, 99–110. [CrossRef]
17. Khazaee, M.; Derian, P .; Mouraud, A. A comprehensive study on Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) of wind turbine blades by
instrumenting tower using machine learning methods. Renew. Energy 2022 ,199, 1568–1579. [CrossRef]
18. Bejger, A.; Drzewieniecki, J.B. A New Method of Identifying the Limit Condition of Injection Pump Wear in Self-Ignition Engines.
Energies 2020 ,13, 1601. [CrossRef]
19. Wang, W.; Xue, Y.; He, C.; Zhao, Y. Review of the Typical Damage and Damage-Detection Methods of Large Wind Turbine Blades.
Energies 2022 ,15, 5672. [CrossRef]
20. Chen, B.; Yu, S.; Yu, Y.; Zhou, Y. Acoustical damage detection of wind turbine blade using the improved incremental support
vector data description. Renew. Energy 2020 ,156, 548–557. [CrossRef]
21. Liu, P . Acoustic Emission Signal Analysis and Damage Mode Identiﬁcation of Composite Wind Turbine Blades ; Elsevier: Amsterdam,
The Netherlands, 2023; ISBN 978-0-323-88652-9.
22. Manwell, J.F.; McGowan, J.G.; Rogers, A.L. Wind Energy Explained: Theory, Design and Application ; John Wiley & Sons: Hoboken,
NJ, USA, 2010; ISBN 9780470015001.
23. Kalmikov, A. Wind Power Fundamentals. In Wind Energy Engineering ; Academic Press: Cambridge, MA, USA, 2017; pp. 17–24.
[CrossRef]
24. Ding, S.; Yang, C.; Zhang, S. Acoustic-Signal-Based Damage Detection of Wind Turbine Blades—A Review. Sensors 2023 ,23, 4987.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 7474 17 of 17
25. Batko, W.; D ˛ abrowski, Z.; Kici´ nski, J. Nonlinear Effects in Technical Diagnostics ; Publishing and Printing—Polish Academy of
Sciences PAN & Institute for Sustainable Technologies: Warsaw, Poland, 2008; ISBN 13 978-8372047489.
26. Coherence Function. Available online : https://ccrma.stanford.edu/~jos/st/Coherence_Function.html (accessed on 11 April 2022).
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
