Citation: Tang, W.; Blanche, J.;
Mitchell, D.; Harper, S.; Flynn, D.
Characterisation of Composite
Materials for Wind Turbines Using
Frequency Modulated Continuous
Wave Sensing. J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7,
75. https://doi.org/10.3390/
jcs7020075
Academic Editor: Francesco
Tornabene
Received: 8 December 2022
Revised: 25 January 2023
Accepted: 30 January 2023
Published: 10 February 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
Article
Characterisation of Composite Materials for Wind T urbines
Using Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave Sensing
Wenshuo Tang1,*
, Jamie Blanche1
, Daniel Mitchell1
, Samuel Harper1
and David Flynn1,2
1James Watt School of Engineering, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8QQ, UK
2The School of Engineering and Physical Sciences, Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh EH14 4AS, UK
*Correspondence: wenshuo.tang@glasgow.ac.uk
Abstract: Wind turbine blades (WTBs) are critical sub-systems consisting of composite multi-layer
material structures. WTB inspection is a complex and labour intensive process, and failure of it
can lead to substantial energy and economic losses to asset owners. In this paper, we proposed a
novel non-destructive evaluation method for blade composite materials, which employs Frequency
Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW) radar, robotics and machine learning (ML) analytics. We
show that using FMCW raster scan data, our ML algorithms (SVM, BP , Decision Tree and Naïve
Bayes) can distinguish different types of composite materials with accuracy of over 97.5%. The
best performance is achieved by SVM algorithms, with 94.3% accuracy. Furthermore, the proposed
method can also achieve solid results for detecting surface defect: interlaminar porosity with 80%
accuracy overall. In particular, the SVM classiﬁer shows highest accuracy of 92.5% to 98.9%. We also
show the ability to detect air voids of 1mm differences within the composite material WT structure
with 94.1% accuracy performance using SVM, and 84.5% using Naïve Bayes. Lastly, we create a
digital twin of the physical composite sample to support the integration and qualitative analysis of
the FMCW data with respect to composite sample characteristics. The proposed method explores
a new sensing modality for non-contact surface and subsurface for composite materials, and offer
insights for developing alternative, more cost-effective inspection and maintenance regimes.
Keywords: non-destructive evaluation; FMCW; sensing; composite materials; wind turbine blades
1. Introduction
Among the different renewable energy generation sources, wind power plays an
increasingly important role to global clean power. During the last two decades, global
wind power capacity has grown at a rapid pace. Record growth was seen in 2020 where the
wind power industry installed 93GW of new capacity, an unprecedented 53% year-on-year
increase [ 1]. As this promising sector grows, reduction in Operational and Maintenance
(O&M) costs, increased reliability and resilience of wind turbine systems becomes crucial.
The O&M costs of wind turbines represent 25% to 30% of overall energy generation
cost [ 2], where WTB are generally considered the most critical asset [ 3], its manufacturing
cost accounts for 15–20% of each wind turbine installation cost [ 4]. The increasing demand
for renewable energy supply also calls for larger and lower-cost WT blades, therefore,
modern WTB typically employ composite materials [ 4], such as glass ﬁbre reinforced
polymer (GFRP) and carbon ﬁber reinforced polymer (CFRP). These composite materials
are cost-effective options for asset owners with the features of high stiffness and light
weight [ 5]. but also face potential defects such as delamination and debonding which
undermines its reliability. This issue becomes increasingly important as longer and wider
blades ranging from 20 to 100 m are manufactured to enable more energy capture, which
also implies heavier load levels which affects the operational safety of WTBs [6,7].
Failure or damage to WT blades can also lead to substantial economic losses [ 8].
WT blades are subject to both manufacturing defects and damage from harsh operating
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75. https://doi.org/10.3390/jcs7020075 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jcs
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 2 of 20
environment, such as ultraviolet radiation, wind gusts, moisture absorption, fatigue, ice
accumulation and lightning strikes etc. [ 9,10]. Meanwhile, when subjected to structural
testing, damage such as cracks may occur to the composite material and adhesive interface
of WT blades. Full scale testing may also result in delamination and debonding of the
turbine structure [ 11]. Additional difﬁculty for Asset Management(AM) of WT blade is data
availability where detailed documentation and data on the range and extent of damages
are generally unavailable.
Thus, once a WTB has been installed, it is essential to perform non-destructive evalua-
tion (NDE) techniques to prevent failure [ 12]. Existing NDE methods tested and used for
WTB include visual inspection, sonic and ultrasonic, thermography, and electromagnetic.
These methods have been reviewed in detail by researchers over the years as in [ 13–15]
showing different strengths but als limitations. For example, visual inspections can be ideal
for examining surface defects yet unable to provide inner-structure evaluations [ 16,17],
ultrasonic sensing may have lower computation cost but face sound attenuation and scatter-
ing concerns [ 18], and may require complicated equipment set-up [ 19]. Strain measurement
provides in-service monitoring but is difﬁcult to retro-ﬁt [ 20], while AE sensor systems are
sensitivity to noise [ 13]. The need for an NDE method that is resilient, low-cost, and easy to
implement is crucial for addressing the challenges associated with monitoring WTBs. Such
a method would improve the overall efﬁciency and effectiveness of WTB management.
In this paper, we present a novel NDE method using a patented Frequency Mod-
ulated Continuous Wave (FMCW) radar technology for composite material and defect
characterization of WTBs. Speciﬁcally, we integrate the FMCW sensor onto a robotic manip-
ulator for automated raster scanning and collect data on different WTB samples, and build
a data library. Machine learning algorithms are then trained with pre-processed data
of WTB, and showed good performance in characterizing WTBs with different physical
features(with 98.5% prediction accuracy). We further demonstrate the ability to use the
proposed NDE method to capture WTB surface manufacturing defects (i.e., interlaminar
porosity and sub-surface air voids with 94.1% prediction accuracy). We demonstrate the
encouraging potential of FMCW in capturing WT blade physical and defect information,
and the automation of this light weight, low power, and tunable technology for advancing
inspection procedures in NDE of composites. Finally, we present a Digital Twin (DT) of the
WT blade. This DT acts as an Asset Integrity Dashboard (AID), which aims to display return
signal data from FMCW experiments in a more intuitive fashion for those not familiar with
the technology and how to interpret the results.
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows; Section 2 introduces a literature
review of NDE methods for WTBs. Section 3 brings the FMCW radar background, dielectric
theory and our experiment settings. Sections 4 and 5 describes the overall machine learning
methodology, data acquisition procedures and machine learning modelling for WT defect
detection and associated results. Section 6 presents the visualisation of the WT inspection
in a DT. Section 7 provides the future work and discussion and lastly, Section 8 brings the
ﬁnal conclusion.
2. Literature Review of NDE Techniques for WTBs
Most modern WT blades employ glass ﬁber reinforced polymer (GFRP) and, in some
cases, carbon ﬁber reinforced polymer (CFRP) are also increasingly used [ 6,7]. These com-
posite materials form the sandwich structure of WT blades, which features high bending
stiffness, high buckling resistance while remaining light-weight.
Growing demand for pollution-free electricity in the global energy transition has
fuelled increasing interest in WT blade monitoring and fault diagnosis. Failure or damage
to WT blades may occur during manufacturing or continuous operation [ 21,22]. For ex-
ample, ultraviolet radiation, wind gusts, ice accumulation or lightning strikes etc [ 9,10].
Meanwhile, when subjected to structural testing, damage such as cracks may occur to
the composite material and adhesive interface of WT blades. Full scale testing may also
result in delamination and debonding of the turbine structure, which are common modes
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 3 of 20
of WT blade damage [ 11]. While it is economically beneﬁcial to identify damages early,
WT blade composite structure has made fault diagnosis of the asset at early stage challeng-
ing[6,23–25] . This characteristic poses signiﬁcant monitoring cost in WT blades and bring
challenges to damage investigation, diagnostics, and maintenance strategies [ 6]. Additional
difﬁculty for Asset Management(AM) of WT blade is data availability where detailed
documentation and data on the range and extent of damages are generally unavailable.
Given the increasing number of distributed installations further from the shoreline,
modern wind turbines and WTBs face harsher and more complex operating environ-
ments. The effective utilisation of wind turbine assets such as wind-turbine blades requires
comprehensive and detailed SHM to maintain asset structural integrity during operation.
To support SHM, NDE are often conducted through different techniques such as manual
inspection, strain measurement, acoustic emission (AE) testing, ultrasound testing etc.
In this section, we will present a review and discussion of the latest NDE methods and
their use for WTB. Visual inspections can be fast and inexpensive for examining external
surface faults of WTBs [ 16]. However, visual inspections often require good sight of the
object which may pose safety concerns to the inspector [ 13], and are subject to human skills
and interpretation limitations [ 24], and may be time-consuming for large objects. Recent
development of automated camera systems can help reduce human labour hazards [ 16],
but remains unable to identify inner structure damages.
Acoustic emission method is a physical contact-based, vibration-based fault detection
technique for WT blades. It is widely employed for detecting elastic stress waves that
represent accelerated fatigue or cracks, and locating such faults in composite materials
and WTBs [ 26–28]. However, AE sensors needs to be embedded or mounted which can
be expensive to asset owners, and due to its high sensitivity, noise disturbance may also
mask the fault signals collected by AE sensors [ 15,22]. Therefore, when considering AE
for fault detection, AE sensors need to be placed near the location of blade damage to be
effective [ 11], when fault location is unobservable from the surface, multiple AE sensors
need to be placed on different points of the blade. There are also concerns with accurate
mapping of AE data with speciﬁc damage mechanisms [ 29], and the need to use other NDE
methods for result veriﬁcation [30].
Strain measurement is another example of contact-based NDE. For example, Fibre
Optic Bragg Grating (FBG) sensors can be used as strain measuring devices to provide con-
tinuous load data during WT blade operation [ 20], while microbending optical ﬁbre sensors
were shown to be useful for detection of cracks in WT blade adhesive joints [ 31]. Despite
their effectiveness in damage detection tasks, optical ﬁbre sensors require complex and
expensive conﬁgurations, which limits their usefulness for efﬁciency and economic reasons.
Ultrasonic testing evaluation systems use high frequency sound waves to penetrate
composite materials and identify characteristics of internal defects, such as crack location,
size and orientation [ 8,32]. It is suggested that this method is suitable for verifying quality
of lamination between layers of composite materials for WT blades [ 33,34]. The limitation
in ultrasonic technique lies in its dependence on a water or gel couplant.
Alternative to contact-based NDE methods, electromagnetic NDE does not require
physical contact with the blade and can penetrate nonconductive materials and provide the
spectral response of the material [ 35,36]. Examples of this method include: eddy current,
radio frequency eddy-current, and microwave. Eddy current can be used for evaluating
CFRP [ 26] and metallic composites [ 37], and may be used for delamination detection [ 35,38].
Radio frequency eddy-current is also applicable to CFRP . As reviewed in [ 39], it is typically
employed for misalignments, polymer degradation and layer orientation. Microwave
technique using electromagnetic radiation with millimeter wave spectrum, has shown
some potential in detecting GFRP composite material faults such as wrinkles and ﬂat
bottom holes [ 13,40,41]. Laser ultrasonic systems can also provide a contactless imaging
solution for rotating blade fault such as debonding and delamination but requires complex
system setting and faces low sensitivity issues [ 13,42]. Other non-contact NDE methods
for composites such as optical or non-optical thermography are often time-consuming to
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 4 of 20
use, especially for thick materials, requiring material to be conductive, or have complex
system [43,44]. A comparable summary of these NDE methods is illustrated in Table 1.
Table 1. Summary of NDE methods on WTBs with their advantages and limitations.
Method of NDE Refs Advantage Disadvantage Critical Analysis
Visual inspection [13,16,24] Low cost; Simple to carry outLimited to surface defects;
Inspector safety concerns;
Depends on camera quality
and inspector skills; Time
consuming; Affected by
weather conditionsUsed for large structures
(e.g., bridges, WTBs) visible
surface defect inspections
from a safe distance, can be
combined with UAV .
Acoustic Emissions [11,15,26–28]High Resolution Triangulate;
Can be used on in-service
assets; Good accuracy in
short distance; Passive
NDT techniqueContact-based, requires
sensors to be embedded;
Sensitive to noise
disturbance; Vibrations
affect resultsUsed for static sensing with
easy access; Suitable for glass
ﬁbre reinforced
plastic materials
Ultrasonic [13,33,34,42]Low computation cost; Good
accuracy; May be used for
large-are, in-serviceContact-based, requires
couplant, Sound attenuation,
Scanner required, May need
expensive hardwareCan detect early stage faults
and fault locations, such as
ice thickness and
delamination
Strain measurement [20,31] Integrated within blades Difﬁcult to retroﬁtCan monitor
operational loads
Optical [43,44] Non-contact, high sensitivitySensitive to small thickness,
expensiveConduct surface inspection
for large areas in short time
Electromagnetic [13,26,35–41,45] Non-contact and Low costScanner is required, Sensitive
to alignment orientationSuitable for delamination
detection of composite
material such as CFRP
The above table summarizes existing techniques for WTB NDE inspections and mon-
itoring. As highlighted in the table, there are still challenges which prohibit universal
deployment of these inspection methods in real-world. For example, offshore operators
may prefer sensing modality that doesn’t need a couplant, can operates without contact
and even at a safe distance from the material under test. In addition, being able to operate
reliably in a wide range of weather conditions could also be a desirable factor. As such,
developing a technique with minimal contact and rapid inspections would add value for
asset owners. This could potentially reduce the required manpower currently required
during visual inspection [ 46] and allow for UAVs to complete a more accurate/compliment
inspection due to the inclusion of subsurface analysis [47].
In this paper, we present a unique method of NDE for surface and sub-surface diagnos-
tics of composite material in WTB samples by utilizing a patented Frequency Modulated
Continuous Wave (FMCW) radar technology. This compact sensing technology is elec-
tromagnetic, non-contact, light weight, low power, robust and tunable, providing viable
payload for autonomous, as well as resident, inspection systems [ 48]. Previous work of
FMCW sensing for material analysis as an inspection tool for the K-band and X-band has
been reviewed and summarized by the authors [ 49]. FMCW has recently been applied
as a system for NDE of WTBs for studying the delamination, cracks, water ingress and
composite material characterisation [ 50,51]. Other applications include analysis of dynamic
load deformation in geomaterials for sample failure prediction [ 52], detecting corrosion and
corrosion precursors [ 53] and for the analysis of core contents of partially ﬂuid-saturated
materials [ 54,55]. The technology was also shown to support localization in opaque envi-
ronments and for safety applications, wherein the detection of people concealed by walls
can provide forewarning of people about to enter the mission space of an autonomous
robotic platform [56–59].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 5 of 20
3. FMCW Sensing Background
3.1. FMCW and Dielectric Theory
FMCW represents a “continuous wave” sweep, where the output frequency is mod-
ulated to create a saw-tooth output. The difference in frequency between the emitted
and return signals is determined by summing output and input waveforms to give a low
frequency signal, which is then analyzed to infer the properties of an object in the Field
Of View (FOV). This is termed the Intermediate Frequency (IF) signal of frequency Df.
The determination of the IF signal is as follows [60]:
fRFout=fRF0+kft (1)
where 0tT,fRF0(Hz) is the starting frequency, T(ms) is the chirp duration (frequency
sweep duration), kf(Hz/s) is the sweep rate. The negative time of ﬂight can be taken as a
magnitude, allowing for the expression:
Df=B
T2d
c(2)
where B(GHz) is the frequency sweep bandwidth, d(m) is the distance between the reﬂect-
ing target and antenna and c(m/s) is the speed of light in the medium of propagation.
Due to the relationship expressed in Equation (2), the distance between the sensor
and target is kept constant. Thereby, any signal variation can be attributed to the target
surface intrinsic properties, as long as dis known. More in depth analysis of the FMCW
radar theory can be found within Blanche et al., 2020 [51].
The dielectric theory processes for composite materials are governed by EM wave
attenuation and dispersion, often termed “dielectric relaxation”. The frequency of the trans-
mitted signal, which propagates to the material, is the key factor for the relaxation process.
This results in oscillations, which dampen the signal at differing rates as a function of the
component scale range [ 61]. Key features including surface and subsurface properties can
be extracted from the return signal amplitudes via amplitude signal variations received at
the antenna. Properties such as interfacial geometry, ﬂuid content and type, surface contam-
inants and abundance of high permittivity minerals can affect the received amplitude [ 51].
Therefore, amplitude signal variations can be attributed to the intrinsic properties of the
material and asset condition for a speciﬁc range. This can be characterised via contrasts in
a predetermined baseline of a standard material sample. A full description of FMCW radar
interaction between porous media partially saturated with ﬂuids and internal geomaterial
properties via non-invasive FMCW measurement is provided by Blanche et al. [51,55].
3.2. Radar Speciﬁcation
The K-band radar module was connected directly to a Flann 21-240 Standard Gain
Horn (SGH) antenna via a SMA/SMA connector rated to 26 GHz, with key operating
parameters given in Table 2 [ 51,60]. Figure 1 provides a block diagram of the sensor setup
and analytical workﬂow. Evaluation of the utilized Flann Microwave antenna shows
it to have a peak amplitude spot size on the target of 36.4 mm radius at an antenna—
target separation of 10 cm. Assuming a consistent near ﬁeld divergence of 15for the
radiation pattern emitted from this antenna, the FOV for a target separation of 30 cm is
2010 3m2[51,60].
Table 2. FMCW parameters used during the investigation.
Parameter Value
Frequency Band K Band (24–25.5 GHz)
Chirp Duration 300 ms
Bandwidth 1.5 GHz
Data Acquisition Frequency 1 Hz
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 6 of 20
Figure 1. Block diagram of the sensor setup and analytical workﬂow, where the red (clockwise)
arrows indicate the transmitted signal stages and the blue (counter-clockwise) arrows represent the
received signal and data processing stages.
The FMCW radar sensor was conﬁgured in the following way as highlighted in
Figure 2. This method allowed for surface and subsurface analysis of the material under
test where MATLAB was utilised to initiate the continuous wave and collect data at the
transceiver antenna.
Figure 2. FMCW Radar setup for procedures outlined.
The next two sections will explore the feasibility of FMCW and machine learning tech-
niques in identifying variation physical properties of WTB composite structures, detection
of different defects, and evaluation of defect severity.
4. WTB Composite Characterization Using Machine Learning and FMCW Data
This section summarizes the experimental and data acquisition procedure for WTB
structure characterization. We do so by ﬁrstly building a data library via FMCW sensor onto
a robotic manipulator for automated raster scanning and collect data from different WTB
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 7 of 20
composite test samples with different composite types and diameter differentials. The data
is preprocessed and then used to further explore the capability of data driven approaches.
Different machine learning models are then trained to distinguish the composite material
test samples, with key features extracted from the radar return signal amplitude (RSA).
4.1. Experiment Samples
Two monolithic and one sandwich composites samples have been used for the purpose
of this study, as both types of composites are routinely used in WTB structures. The material
and physical property is illustrated in Figure 3. The data collected from the FMCW radar
sensor was taken from sandwich and monolithic composites which were manufactured by
EDF R&D division as representative analogues which could include faults found on wind
turbine blades. This was used to evaluate the capacity of the FMCW radar sensor NDE.
The fabrication process of these types of WTB composite can be found in [23,62,63] .
Figure 3. (top left ) Composite material test sample No.1 with monolithic thickness of 48.7 mm, ( top
right ) No.2 with monolithic thickness of 51.2 mm, ( bottom left ) No.3 with sandwich composites with
thickness of 27.8 mm, ( bottom right ) Raster scanning on test samples using UR3 robot manipulator
arm.
4.2. Robotic Integration and Data Collection
An automated raster scan was conducted via a robotic manipulator to obtain sufﬁcient
radar signals for each sample. During the scanning, the surface of the target sample was
subdivided into a sequence of strips. Each strip was further divided into discrete small
pixels for the FMCW sensor to aim and obtain the RSA. The return signal of each scan
captures the material properties within the speciﬁc ﬁeld of view across the whole sample
surface. The objective was to collect enough radar signals from these evenly divided areas
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 8 of 20
and to extract the common pattern, which can be used to represent this certain type of
the composite material sample. We integrated the sensor with a robotic manipulator arm
(UR3) [ 64] for an automatic raster scanning, to ensure smooth and consistent experiment
conditions. The antenna was positioned so that the direction of Electromagnetic (EM)
propagation was perpendicular to the blade surface. Firstly, the robot arm was manually
positioned in free drive mode to face the pixel point at the top left corner of the target
sample surface with a separation (e.g., 10 cm) distance between the target and the antenna
tip. This point is where the ﬁrst scan was taken. The robotic arm was programmed to move
horizontally with a ﬁxed step distance to scan the adjacent pixel point until reaching the
pixel point on the top right corner of the surface of the blade. This action was repeated
row by row until the full area of the target was scanned. For each target sample we also
collected raster scan data with the radar at various distances from the surface(e.g., 10 cm,
15 cm and 20 cm) to ensure sufﬁcient data for a richer training pool.
4.3. Machine Learning Modelling and Algorithms
In machine learning, classiﬁcation refers to the ability of a model to assign instances to
their correct groups. In the context of our case, this means to correctly output the type of
composite sample when given radar RSA from a speciﬁc area of scanning. The process of
machine learning classiﬁcation modeling for the analysis of composite materials utilizing
FMCW radar RSA data involves several steps(as illustrated in Figure 4). Firstly, the raw
data are obtained through the method outlined in Section 4.2. The raw data are then subject
to cleaning and normalization procedures, and are labeled accordingly. The dataset is then
divided into two subsets, with the majority being allocated to the training dataset (75%
of the total dataset) and the remaining portion allocated to the testing dataset (25% of the
total dataset). This approach allows for the development of an accurate model through the
training dataset, and the evaluation of its performance through the testing dataset.
After this data preparation process, we implement different machine learning algo-
rithms using training dataset, which contain features of different inner composite structure
and physical dimensions of WT blades, to train classiﬁcation models.
Support Vector Machine, Bayesian Network, Decision Trees and Back Propagation
network were ﬁrstly implemented to explore the capability of machine learning approaches
for this multi class classiﬁcation problem.
4.3.1. Support Vector Machines
Support Vector Machine (SVM) is a well-known and widely used classiﬁcation model
for ﬁnding a hyper-parameter that separates different groups of data and maximizes the
margin between them using gradient descent [ 65]. In SVM, the computations of data
points separation depend on different mathematical functions that are deﬁned as the kernel.
The function of the kernel is to take data as input and transform them into the required form.
4.3.2. Bayesian Method
Bayesian network [ 66] is a well-known probabilistic graphical model that represents a
set of variables and their conditional dependencies via a Directed Acyclic Graph. As such,
Bayesian network is a useful tool to visualize the probabilistic model for a domain, review-
ing all relationships between random variables, and determining causal probabilities for
scenarios given available evidence.
4.3.3. Back Propagation Neural Network
Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN) is also known as neural network or connection
model. The ANN is a useful tool of mapping complex nonlinear relationships, and it also
shows good robustness and fault tolerance when applied to an unfamiliar or unknown
system. Back propagation (BP) network [ 67] is a multilayer feed forward network which
originally runs error back propagation algorithm for training purposes. It is currently one
of the most popular NN models in the ﬁeld of signal image processing and classiﬁcation.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 9 of 20
4.3.4. Decision Trees
Decision trees [ 68] is a method widely used in machine learning. The goal of the tree
model is to train a model that predicts the value of a target variable based on several input
variables. It classiﬁes testing samples by sorting them from the root to some leaf node in
the tree, with the leaf node providing the classiﬁcation to the example.
Figure 4. Machine learning classiﬁcation modelling workﬂow.
4.4. Data Analysis and Results
In this study, the classiﬁcation model was trained using different forms of RSA data,
e.g., the raw RSA data and processed data through different feature selection methods.
4.4.1. Training from Raw RSA Signal
The raw data obtained from the radar sensor are in the time domain with 1501 sam-
pling points in 0.3 s. This occurs across a frequency sweep from 24–25.5 GHz, with an
oscillating signal of an amplitude at approximately 103 digital units. The signal output from
the FMCW sensor is the Intermediate Frequency (IF), the difference between the emitted
and received signal and represents the time-of-ﬂight data and the target interactions with
the incident wave.
In this work, 600 raster scans from three different distances were conducted for each
composite samples from turbine, therefore 600 raw signal data were collected for each
class and each data point contains a vector with 1501 dimensions representing the time
domain signal returned from the target. In this work, the Class 1, 2 and 3 refer to Composite
material test sample No.1, No.2 and No.3. with order in Figure 3. It is notable that sample
No.1 and No.2 shares the same monolithic composite structure but different thickness
(2.5 mm), where sample No.3 is the sandwich blade with different material structure. The
models were trained with 75% data from the raw data pool and tested with the remaining
25% data. When given a new observation from the testing data pool.
In this study, the Principal Component Analysis (PCA) [ 69] technique is also used
for feature selection and dimensionality reduction, to further evaluate the capabilities of
different models when given compressed observation data. In this work, nine primary
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 10 of 20
components were generated to achieve the 95% explanation of the original variability.
The overall accuracy of an algorithm in this study is calculated as the mean proportion of
the correct output. The comparable results of the model performance trained from different
dataset are shown in Table 3.
Table 3. Performance of different ML models with TD dataset.
Algorithm Full Length of RSA Signal Compressed Length of Raw RSA Signal
SVM 95% 91%
Naïve Bayes 80.7% 76.1%
Decision Tree 87.7% 75.6%
BP 81.7% 78.7%
4.4.2. Training from Amplitude Data in Frequency Domain
In this study, post data processing was performed via Fast Fourier Transform (FFT),
which transfers the time domain raw signal into the Frequency Domain (FD), from which
amplitude extractions were analyzed and used for model training. Performing FFT trans-
formations on the original datasets gives the spectral results, and with the special feature
of the FMCW radar (the frequency of the signals changes over time), we can extract and
learn the RSA in a range domain. For the FMCW radar in our study with a frequency span
of 1.5 GHz, the resolution of the frequency bins corresponds to 0.1 m in air. This type of
dataset contains the RSA which received from the reﬂections in every 0.1 m, after the EM
propagation penetrates through the target sample. In our work, we explored the fusion of
machine learning and spectral radar signals to extract key material properties of the testing
samples for training our classiﬁcation models. We also trained our models with selected
FD data extracted within limited range (the lowest frequency responses containing the RSA
in a 1m range from the antenna). The overall performance of our ML classiﬁcation systems
is shown in Table 4.
Table 4. Performance of different ML models with FD dataset.
Algorithm Full Range of FD Amplitude Selected Range of FD Amplitude
SVM 98.5% 92.9%
Naïve Bayes 84.8% 82.8%
Decision Tree 88.9% 88.6%
BP 84.5% 79.3%
4.5. Results
The results demonstrate the capability of FMCW radar sensing for composite material
characterization of WTBs. It also shows that machine learning approaches are able to
provide robust data analyses from the FMCW RSA data. From Table 3, we see that the
overall performance of all machine learning classiﬁers is satisfying, where SVM provides
the best performance with 95% accuracy, and the Naïve Bayes has the lowest, but still
acceptable, accuracy of 80.7%. Furthermore, it is notable that while Class 1 and Class 2
blades only differ slightly in thickness (3mm), the Class 3 blade differs from the two types
in material structure. Due to these features, we would expect blades that have the same
composite to have more similar radar RSA than those who do not. This expectation is
realized in our model evaluation.
The results of Table 3 are also presented in a confusion matrix, also known as an con-
fusion matrix to give a improved visualization of the performance of different algorithms.
In the matrix, each cell shows the percentage of testing data from a given true class that is
classiﬁed as a particular predicting class by the model. As shown in the confusion matrix in
Figure 5, for all models, when given test data from Class 1 (or Class 2), incorrect outcomes
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 11 of 20
are more frequently classiﬁed as Class 2 (Class 1) than Class 3. Overall, our machine learn-
ing model is still able to distinguish Class 1 and 2: the SVM model achieves very promising
results with accuracy of 94.3% and 96.8%. Moreover, all of the models exhibit better per-
formance when classifying samples with different material structure (given Class 3). This
demonstrates the sensitivity of the FMCW, and the capability of these machine learning
models to extract key features from the radar RSA. The results demonstrate the ability to
detect minor inner characterisation differences of testing samples, this is an advantage that
cannot be achieved with the current state of the art externally deployed NDE technologies
for composite turbine blades.
Figure 5. Confusion matrix of model performance.
The results also display the capability of machine learning models when trained with
compressed raw RAS data (91% for the SVM, and 83.5% of the rest in average), this indicates
the potential and ﬂexibility for dealing with higher resolution signals (higher dimension of
the training data) in the future. Furthermore, results in Table 4 demonstrate that most of the
models will have improved performance when using extracted frequency/range domain
RSA data as training data. All models can achieve an accuracy over 84.5%. In particular,
SVM with polynomial kernel function reaching 98.5% accuracy, which demonstrates that
the frequency domain data from FMCW reveals richer features and key characteristics about
composite material physical properties. This could also beneﬁt data-driven approaches
for a more robust characteristic evaluation. We can also learn from Table 4 that machine
learning models in our tests can still provide solid classiﬁcation performance when trained
using RSA signals with selected and limited range (1 m behind the antenna, with the
scanned sample in the middle): the decision trees and SVM achieved an overall 88.6% and
92.9% accuracy, respectively.
5. Diagnostics on Manufacture Defects of WTB Composite
The previous section demonstrated that FMCW radar is sufﬁciently sensitive for
inner integrity assessment. As such, in this subsection, we continue to explore its capa-
bility for WTB diagnostics of defect under surface and sub-surface, using samples with
manufacturing defects.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 12 of 20
5.1. Defective Samples
In this paper, we examine manufacturing defects of WTBs. We collected three compos-
ite materials samples used in WTB as for our analysis, two of which are sandwich composite
samples and one monolith sample. The two sandwich composite (SC) samples have the
same structure and composition and both contain manufacturing defects. Speciﬁcally, we
examine a sub-surface defect known as air voids in balsa. The air voids in these two SC
blades also differ in their sizes (as illustrated in Figure 6).
An additional type of defect we study is the interlaminar porosity (a visual representa-
tion is an area of white dry zone) which is manufacture defect on blade surface. For this
purpose, we examine the monolithic composite (MC) sample. This MC sample is shown in
the Figure 6 below with two notable dry zone areas. Speciﬁcation of samples can be found
in Table 5.
Figure 6. Illustration of defects within samples (left: interlaminar porosity, right: air voids in balsa).
Table 5. Detailed speciﬁcation of samples with defects.
Sample Defect Type Defect Size Sample Size
No.4 Interlaminar porosity left: 12 cm 9 cm; 360 mm 385 mm 51.4 mm
(Dry zone) right: 13 cm 11 cm
No.5 Air voids in balsa 1 mm, 2 mm, 4 mm 355 mm 390 mm 27.8 mm
No.6 Air voids in balsa 6 mm 300 mm 39028 mm
5.2. ML Modelling and Data Collection for Defect Detection
To achieve surface and sub-surface defect detection, we identify data collection re-
quirements/process as follows: ﬁrstly, the type of data we needed must be able to represent
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 13 of 20
different classes, i.e, areas with healthy surface/subsurface; areas containing both healthy
and defective surface/subsurface, and ﬁnally defect-only areas. After this data collection
process, we trained different machine learning classiﬁcation models to identify whether
the targeted area contains surface or sub-surface defects.
We conduct raster scans using the same equipment setup described in Section 3.1,
using samples No.5 and No.6 to collect data pertaining to the air gap defect. Speciﬁcally,
sample No.5 contains air gaps of 1 mm, 2 mm, and 4 mm for the ﬁrst SC sample, and sample
No.6 contains 6mm air gap. Figure 7 gives an illustration of the SC sample No.5 inner
structure, our FMCW scanning took place where air gaps are present, i.e., areas labelled as
A, B, C and D for healthy areas, as well as sections X, Y, and Z for areas containing the air
voids defect. For the SC sample 6, we repeat our scanning process but instead scanned two
areas/sections: healthy area, and areas with 6mm air gap.
After these scanning processes, we obtained sufﬁcient RSA data to train our classiﬁca-
tion model with six classes as shown in Table 6. When given future RSA data from a selected
WT blade area as input to this classiﬁcation model, we can use the model output to identify
whether the given data represent sub-surface defect, and the severity of such defects.
Table 6. Characterization classes for air voids defect.
Classes Surface/Subsurface Characterization Sample No.
1 surface area contains 1mm air voids in balsa No.5
2 surface area contains 2mm air voids in balsa No.5
3 surface area contains 4mm air voids in balsa No.5
4 surface area contains 6mm air voids in balsa No.6
5 healthy surface area No.5
6 healthy surface area No.6
Raster scans were conducted at three distances: 5 cm, 10 cm and 15 cm from each
target on the SC sample to ensure sufﬁcient data for a richer training pool. Next, raster
scans were conducted on using samples No.4 to collect data on interlaminar porosity/dry
zone defect. Sample No.4 contains two dry zone areas. As depicted, the nature of these
dry zone areas means that when conducting FMCW scanning, we can obtain RSA data
representing three types of blade surface areas: areas with both the dry zone area itself and
an adjacent healthy blade area; dry zone-only areas; healthy-only areas.
After these scanning processes, we obtained sufﬁcient RSA data to train our classiﬁ-
cation model with three classes as shown in Table 7. When given future RSA data from a
selected WT blade area as input to our classiﬁcation model, we can use the model output
to identify whether the given data represent the interlaminar porosity defect.
Table 7. Characterization classes for Interlaminar porosity defect.
Classes Surface/Subsurface Characterization Sample No.
1 Healthy area No.4
2 Defective area No.4
3 Healthy and defective joint area No.4
FMCW radar were placed at 5 cm, 10 cm, and 15 cm distances from the MC sample
No.4 in Figure 6 for scanning, resulting in 179 scans for dry zone A and 177 scans for dry
zone B.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 14 of 20
Figure 7. Data collection of defect and healthy area of samples No.5, areas labelled as A, B, C and D
represent for healthy areas, where areas X, Y, and Z represent for areas containing the air voids defect
of different sizes.
5.3. Data Anaylsis and Results
We follow the same data analysis procedure as mentioned at Sections 4.2 and 4.3,
speciﬁcally, support Vector Machine, Bayesian Network, Decision Trees and Back Propaga-
tion network were implemented to explore the capability of machine learning approaches
for this multi class classiﬁcation problem. The classiﬁcation model was trained using
different forms of RSA data, e.g., the raw RSA data and processed data through different
feature selection methods. The models were trained with 75% data from the raw data pool
and tested with the remaining 25% data. The accuracy performance of different classiﬁers
using different form of training data is shown at Tables 8 and 9.
Table 8. Accuracy performance of different classiﬁers of interlaminar porosity defect using different
source of training data.
ClassiﬁerFull Length of
Raw RSA
SignalCompressed
Length of Raw
RSA SignalFull Range of
FD AmplitudeSelected Range
of FD
Amplitude
SVM 92.5% 90.9% 98.9% 96.9%
Naïve Bayes 70.8% 68.8% 82.9% 80.9%
Decision Tree 84.9% 79.6% 90.9% 86.9%
BP 80.9% 78.6% 83.9% 87.9%
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 15 of 20
Table 9. Accuracy performance of different classiﬁers of air voids defect using different source of
training data.
AlgorithmFull Length of
RSA SignalCompressed
Length of RSA
SignalFull Range of
FD AmplitudeSelected Range
of FD
Amplitude
SVM 79.2% 75.9% 94.1% 93.9%
Naïve Bayes 80.3% 77.8% 84.5% 83.8%
Decision Tree 71.9% 69.6% 70.1% 68.1%
BP 80.1% 78.6% 88.3% 82.7%
5.4. Discussion and Findings
Results in Tables 8 and 9 illustrate the effectiveness of FMCW radar sensing and ML
algorithm on detection of surface and subsurface defects, i.e., interlaminar porosity and
air voids. From Table 8, we observe that the overall performance of all ML classiﬁers
(SVM, Naive Bayes, Decision Tree and BP) achieved solid results for dry zone detection.
When trained with full length of raw RSA data, SVM provided the best performance of
92.5% accuracy where as Naive Bayes has the least 70.8% accuracy rate. We also show
that ML algorithms trained with compressed data also perform well, and in some cases
even better than using the raw RSA data. When using full range of FD amplitude for
training, our SVM classiﬁer performance increased to 98.9% being the most accurate, while
all other classiﬁers also saw improved performance from the Full length raw RSA signal
case, with overall performance of over 82.8% accuracy rate for dry zone detection problems
on WT blades. These results demonstrate that the frequency domain data transformed
from FMCW RSA signals can be more revealing in terms of features and characteristics of
composite materials defects.
In Table 9, we show results of using different classiﬁers to conduct WT blade diagnos-
tics of air voids defect. We observe that the overall performance of different classiﬁers on
air gap detection is relatively worse than those seen in dry-zone detection. For example,
regardless of the type of data used for training, both SVM and Decision Tree algorithms
saw reduction in accuracy. However, the evidence for whether Naive Bayes and BP are
more accurate for air gap detection is mixed. Among all four classiﬁers, Decision Tree
appears to be the least accurate for detecting air voids within WT blade inner structure.
Still, the highest level of classiﬁcation performance were 94.1% where SVM is trained
with full range of FD amplitude. When using selected range of FD amplitude, SVM
achieved 93.9% accuracy. Comparably, Naive Bayes classiﬁer also achieved satisfactory
performance when trained with full (84.5%) and selected range (83.8%) FD amplitude.
These two types of training data were obtained by feature selection of the raw RSA signals,
and using these two types of data for training leads to better classiﬁcation performance
for all four algorithms compared to training with full length/compressed RSA data. This
ﬁnding is also seen when examining WT blade surface defect of dry zones. In reality,
FMCW might receive too much unnecessary RSA due to reﬂections from a more dynamic
and complex environment, which will make the detection and analysis more challenging.
Our results suggest that FMCW could potentially be a good candidate for ﬂexible integrity
evaluation for WTBs in practical applications with more careful and intelligent range
selection and higher scan resolution from the radar.
6. Asset Integrity Dashboard
The Asset Integrity Dashboard(AID) was developed as an investigation into visu-
alisation techniques for FMCW return signal data This work can be viewed online at
https://smartsystems.hw.ac.uk/asset-integrity-dashboard-version-2/ (accessed on 29 Jan-
uary 2023). It was developed in Unity3D for Windows and HTML5 web integration.
The data returned from the FMCW experiment is not immediately intuitive and requires
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 16 of 20
analysis to understand. For operators with a lower working knowledge of FMCW tech-
nologies but have an understanding of subsurface defects and asset integrity, a more visual
and intuitive method of displaying this data can be beneﬁcial. The AID acts as a DT of
a WTB section, with buttons on the left hand side allowing an operator to view different
pieces of information about the asset, along with a 3D model of the WT blade section which
changes appearance depending on what information is being displayed. An overview of
the interface can be seen in Figure 8A.
Figure 8. (A). Overview of AID interface. Buttons on the left allow speciﬁc information to be overlaid,
with a 3D model of the asset in the middle. ( B). Visualisation of the sample defect in the AID.
The defect is highlighted in red. ( C). Visualisation of all return signal graphs in the AID. Row colours
in the graph match up to the WT 3D object.
Figure 8B shows the defect highlighted in the 3D model within the AID. A schematic
of the sample with defect and a photograph of the sample with the defect highlighted are
provided to assist identiﬁcation of the defect.
The parts of information which can be displayed are:
• Real Images of Sample—Photographs of the sample which is being twinned in the AID.
• Sample Parameters—The supplied parameters of the sample (material composition,
size, etc.).
• Schematic of Sample—A pictorial schematic of the sample with defect area highlighted.
• Experimental Setup—Photographs of the experimental setup of the FMCW with
the sample.
• Overlay of all graphs—Shows all return signal graphs.
• Conclusion—A textual summary of the detected defect.
As a visual example, Figure 8C shows the “Overlay of All Graphs” display. This
displays the return signal graph with colour coding where the colour coding on the graph
matches up with the colour coding on the 3D model for improved reference. Additionally,
there is improved interactivity as the user can click on each coloured row on the 3D model
to view the RSA for each speciﬁc row.
The advantage of using an alternate display method such as this is it enables a more
intuitive approach to viewing return signal data. This allows current operators to utilise
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 17 of 20
FMCW technology without extensive retraining on data post-processing and interpretation.
Future work in this area includes more visualisation techniques of the data (e.g., highlight
critical parts of the return signal) and run-time generation of the graphs and model. Cur-
rently, all data shown are generated ofﬂine in MATLab and only screenshots are shown in
the AID. Future work includes generating this information during runtime to enable for
rapid remote asset integrity inspection.
7. Future Work and Discussion
Our future studies could focus on examining the resilience and sensitivity of FMCW
radar to vibrations, varying weather and environmental conditions. In the current study,
FMCW radar was mounted on a robotic arm for smooth scanning of the blade sample.
However, in practice, WTBs often operate in harsh environments with strong winds, making
smooth maneuvering of robotic arms difﬁcult. Furthermore, future research could also
explore the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) for rapid inspection of WTBs located at
signiﬁcant heights, which would require the design of optimal UAV routes and positioning
of the FMCW radar for efﬁcient and accurate data capture under vibration. Additionally,
this FMCW application could also be extended to identify the severity of defects on a
WTB, different types of defects, and varying levels of defects throughout different stages
of a WTB’s lifecycle. This would enable asset owners and managers to build a library of
FMCW response data pertaining to varying WTB health status, which is currently lacking in
literature. It is worth noting that our methodology highly depends on data availability and
quality. However, collecting high-quality WTB data can be difﬁcult and time-consuming.
For example, it may be very diffuclt to collect high quality data on defects occurring at
different stages of the entire WTB lifecycle.
8. Conclusions
The current methods for non-destructive evaluation (NDE) of wind turbine blades
(WTBs) are highly labor-intensive and costly, and rely primarily on visual inspection.
As the number of wind farms continues to increase, there is a pressing need to improve
the consistency and accuracy of WTB evaluations, as well as to safely access both surface
and subsurface characteristics. In response to this need, this paper presents a non-contact,
low-power NDE approach that utilizes frequency-modulated continuous-wave (FMCW)
radar analysis in conjunction with machine learning. The proposed method employs
composite samples from the R&D division of EDF and a robotic arm for FMCW sensing.
Results from classiﬁcation models demonstrate that FMCW can accurately characterize
composite material physical features, such as thickness, with 92.9% accuracy using a
support vector machine (SVM) model and a full range of frequency domain amplitude
for training. Furthermore, the method has the ability to distinguish variable surface
defects, such as dry zones, with high accuracy of 98.9% (SVM) and 82.9% (Naive Bayes).
Additionally, FMCW analysis is able to capture subsurface defects (air voids) of size 1mm
with over 94.1% accuracy. In summary, this paper demonstrates the promising potential
of FMCW in capturing WTB physical and defect information and the automation of this
lightweight, compact, and low-power technology for advancing inspection procedures in
NDE of composites. The paper also presents a digital twin of the WTB as an Asset Integrity
Dashboard, which displays return signal data in an intuitive manner for those not familiar
with the technology. Future research will focus on examining the resilience and sensitivity
of FMCW radar to vibrations and environmental conditions, as well as the deployment of
UAVs and FMCW for rapid inspection of WTBs.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, D.F., W.T. and J.B.; methodology, W.T.; software, J.B.,
D.M. and S.H.; validation, W.T.; formal analysis, D.F. and J.B.; investigation, D.M.; resources, S.H.;
data curation, W.T.; writing—original draft preparation, W.T.; writing—review and editing, D.F.;
visualization, S.H.; supervision, D.F.; project administration, D.F.; funding acquisition, D.F. All
authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 18 of 20
Funding: This research was funded by the EPSRC Offshore Robotics for Certiﬁcation of Assets Hub
under Grant EP/R026173/1. The APC was funded by Heriot Watt University.
Acknowledgments: The experiments of this research were supported by MicroSense Technologies
Ltd (MTL) in the provision of their patented microwave sensing technology (PCT/GB2017/053275),
EDF R&D division in the provision of wind turbine composite samples.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. WWEA. Worldwide Wind Capacity Reaches 744 Gigawatts. Technical Report, World Wind Energy Association, 2021. Available
online: https://wwindea.org/worldwide-wind-capacity-reaches-744-gigawatts (accessed on 29 January 2023).
2. Barnes, M.; Brown, K.; Carmona, J.; Cevasco, D.; Collu, M.; Crabtree, C.; Crowther, W.; Djurovic, S.; Flynn, D.; Green, P .; et al.
Technology Drivers in Windfarm Asset Management ; Home Offshore: Singapore, 2018. [CrossRef]
3. Kong, C.; Bang, J.; Sugiyama, Y. Structural investigation of composite wind turbine blade considering various load cases and
fatigue life. Energy 2005 ,30, 2101–2114.
4. Thomsen, O.T. Sandwich Materials for Wind Turbine Blades—Present and Future. J. Sandw. Struct. Mater. 2009 ,11, 7–26.
[CrossRef]
5. Tucci, F.; Vedernikov, A. Design Criteria for Pultruded Structural Elements. In Encyclopedia of Materials: Composites ;
Brabazon, D., Ed.; Elsevier: Oxford, UK, 2021; pp. 51–68. [CrossRef]
6. Yang, B.; Sun, D. Testing, inspecting and monitoring technologies for wind turbine blades: A survey. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.
2013 ,22, 515–526. [CrossRef]
7. Red, C. Wind turbine blades: Big and getting bigger. Compos. Technol. 2008 . Available online: https://www.compositesworld.
com/articles/wind-turbine-blades-big-and-getting-bigger (accessed on 29 January 2023).
8. Raišutis, R.; Jasiuniene, E.; Sliteris, R.; Vladišauskas, A. The review of non-destructive testing techniques suitable for inspection
of the wind turbine blades. Ultrasound 2008 ,63, 26–30.
9. Chou, J.S.; Chiu, C.K.; Huang, I.K.; Chi, K.N. Failure analysis of wind turbine blade under critical wind loads. Eng. Fail. Anal.
2013 ,27, 99–118. [CrossRef]
10. Liu, W.; Tang, B.; Han, J.; Lu, X.; Hu, N.; He, Z. The structure healthy condition monitoring and fault diagnosis methods in wind
turbines: A review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2015 ,44, 466–472. [CrossRef]
11. Li, D.; Ho, S.C.M.; Song, G.; Ren, L.; Li, H. A review of damage detection methods for wind turbine blades. Smart Mater. Struct.
2015 ,24, 033001. [CrossRef]
12. Besnard, F.; Bertling, L. An Approach for Condition-Based Maintenance Optimization Applied to Wind Turbine Blades. IEEE
Trans. Sustain. Energy 2010 ,1, 77–83. [CrossRef]
13. Yang, R.; He, Y.; Zhang, H. Progress and trends in nondestructive testing and evaluation for wind turbine composite blade.
Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,60, 1225–1250. [CrossRef]
14. Sutherland, H.; Beattie, A.; Hansche, B.; Musial, W.; Allread, J.; Johnson, J.; Summers, M. The Application of Non-Destructive
Techniques to the Testing of a Wind Turbine Blade ; Sandia National Labs.: Albuquerque, NM, USA, 1994. [CrossRef]
15. García Márquez, F.P .; Peco Chacón, A.M. A review of non-destructive testing on wind turbines blades. Renew. Energy 2020 ,
161, 998–1010. [CrossRef]
16. Kim, D.Y.; Kim, H.B.; Jung, W.S.; Lim, S.; Hwang, J.H.; Park, C.W. Visual testing system for the damaged area detection of wind
power plant blade. In Proceedings of the IEEE ISR, Seoul, Republic of Korea, 24–26 October 2013; pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
17. Wallace, J.; Dawson, M. O&M strategies: Wind turbine blades. Renew. Energy Focus 2009 ,10, 36–41. [CrossRef]
18. Raišutis, R.; Tiwari, K.A.; Žukauskas, E.; Tumšys, O.; Draudvilien ˙e, L. A Novel Defect Estimation Approach in Wind Turbine
Blades Based on Phase Velocity Variation of Ultrasonic Guided Waves. Sensors 2021 ,21, 4879. [CrossRef]
19. Jasiuniene, E.; Raišutis, R.; literis, R.; Voleiis, A.; Vladiauskas, A.; Mitchard, D.; Amos, M. NDT of wind turbine blades using
adapted ultrasonic and radiographic techniques. Insight—Non-Destr. Test. Cond. Monit. 2009 ,51, 477–483. [CrossRef]
20. Schroeder, K.; Ecke, W.; Apitz, J.; Lembke, E.; Lenschow, G. A ﬁbre Bragg grating sensor system monitors operational load in a
wind turbine rotor blade. Meas. Sci. Technol. 2006 ,17, 1167–1172. [CrossRef]
21. Hernandez Crespo, B. Damage Sensing in Blades. In MARE-WINT: New Materials and Reliability in Offshore Wind Turbine Technology ;
Ostachowicz, W., McGugan, M., Schröder-Hinrichs, J.U., Luczak, M., Eds.; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland,
2016; pp. 25–52. [CrossRef]
22. Du, Y.; Zhou, S.; Jing, X.; Peng, Y.; Wu, H.; Kwok, N. Damage detection techniques for wind turbine blades: A review. Mech. Syst.
Signal Process. 2020 ,141, 106445. [CrossRef]
23. Mishnaevsky, L.; Branner, K.; Petersen, H.N.; Beauson, J.; McGugan, M.; Sørensen, B.F. Materials for Wind Turbine Blades: An
Overview. Materials 2017 ,10, 1285. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
24. Gupta, R.; Huo, D.; White, M.; Jha, V .; Stenning, G.B.; Pancholi, K. Novel method of healing the ﬁbre reinforced thermoplastic
composite: A potential model for offshore applications. Compos. Commun. 2019 ,16, 67–78. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 19 of 20
25. Mandell, J.; Samborsky, D. Composite materials fatigue issues in wind turbine blade construction. Int. SAMPE Symp. Exhib.
(Proc.) 2008 . Available online: https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/document?repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=80c5f68e0501d6cf56a650
2f099607ec4a6e3acc (accessed on 29 January 2023).
26. Saeedifar, M.; Ahmadi Najafabadi, M.; Youseﬁ, J.; Mohammadi, R.; Hosseini Toudeshky, H.; Minak, G. Delamination analysis in
composite laminates by means of Acoustic Emission and bi-linear/tri-linear Cohesive Zone Modeling. Compos. Struct. 2017 ,
161, 505–512. [CrossRef]
27. Liu, P .; Xu, D.; Li, J.; Chen, Z.; Wang, S.; Leng, J.; Zhu, R.; Jiao, L.; Liu, W.; Li, Z. Damage mode identiﬁcation of composite
wind turbine blade under accelerated fatigue loads using acoustic emission and machine learning. Struct. Health Monit. 2020 ,
19, 1092–1103. [CrossRef]
28. Liu, Z.; Wang, X.; Zhang, L. Fault Diagnosis of Industrial Wind Turbine Blade Bearing Using Acoustic Emission Analysis. IEEE
Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2020 ,69, 6630–6639. [CrossRef]
29. Gholizadeh, S. A review of non-destructive testing methods of composite materials. Procedia Struct. Integr. 2016 ,1, 50–57.
30. Grosse, C. Acoustic emission (AE) evaluation of reinforced concrete structures. In Non-Destructive Evaluation of Reinforced Concrete
Structures ; Woodhead Publishing Series in Civil and Structural Engineering; Maierhofer, C., Reinhardt, H.W., Dobmann, G., Eds. ;
Woodhead Publishing: Sawston, UK, 2010; V olume 2, pp. 185–214. [CrossRef]
31. Soerensen, B.F.; Lading, L.; Sendrup, P . Fundamentals for Remote Structural Health Monitoring of Wind Turbine Blades—A Pre-Project ;
Materials Research Dept., Risoe National Lab.: Roskilde, Denmark, 2002.
32. Lu, Y. Non-Destructive Evaluation on Concrete Materials and Structures Using Cement-Based Piezoelectric Sensor ; Hong Kong University
of Science and Technology: Hong Kong, China, 2010.
33. Raišutis, R.; Kažys, R.; Mažeika, L. Application of the ultrasonic pulse-echo technique for quality control of the multi-layered
plastic materials. NDT E Int. 2008 ,41, 300–311. [CrossRef]
34. Amenabar, I.; Mendikute, A.; López-Arraiza, A.; Lizaranzu, M.; Aurrekoetxea, J. Comparison and analysis of non-destructive
testing techniques suitable for delamination inspection in wind turbine blades. Compos. Part B Eng. 2011 ,42, 1298–1305.
[CrossRef]
35. Mook, G.; Lange, R.; Koeser, O. Non-destructive characterisation of carbon-ﬁbre-reinforced plastics by means of eddy-currents.
Compos. Sci. Technol. 2001 ,61, 865–873. [CrossRef]
36. Pieraccini, M.; Parrini, F.; Fratini, M.; Atzeni, C.; Spinelli, P . In-service testing of wind turbine towers using a microwave sensor.
Renew. Energy 2008 ,33, 13–21. [CrossRef]
37. Jeong, H.; Hsu, D.K.; Liaw, P .K. Anisotropic conductivities of multiphase particulate metal-matrix composites. Compos. Sci.
Technol. 1998 ,58, 65–76. [CrossRef]
38. Moll, J. Numerical and Experimental Analysis of Defect Detection in Jointed Electromagnetic Waveguides. In Proceedings of the
2019 13th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EuCAP), Krakow, Poland, 31 March–5 April 2019; pp. 1–4.
39. Heuer, H.; Schulze, M.; Pooch, M.; Gäbler, S.; Nocke, A.; Bardl, G.; Cherif, C.; Klein, M.; Kupke, R.; Vetter, R.; et al. Review
on quality assurance along the CFRP value chain – Non-destructive testing of fabrics, preforms and CFRP by HF radio wave
techniques. Compos. Part B Eng. 2015 ,77, 494–501. [CrossRef]
40. Li, Z.; Haigh, A.; Soutis, C.; Gibson, A.; Wang, P . A review of microwave testing of glass ﬁbre-reinforced polymer composites.
Nondestruct. Test. Eval. 2019 ,34, 429–458. [CrossRef]
41. Kharkovsky, S.; Zoughi, R. Microwave and millimeter wave nondestructive testing and evaluation - Overview and recent
advances. IEEE Instrum. Meas. Mag. 2007 ,10, 26–38. [CrossRef]
42. Park, B.; Sohn, H.; Yeum, C.M.; Truong, T.C. Laser ultrasonic imaging and damage detection for a rotating structure. Struct.
Health Monit. 2013 ,12, 494–506. [CrossRef]
43. Zhang, H.; Jackman, J. Feasibility of Automatic Detection of Surface Cracks in Wind Turbine Blades. Wind Eng. 2014 ,38, 575–586.
[CrossRef]
44. Katnam, K.B.; Comer, A.J.; Roy, D.; da Silva, L.F.M.; Young, T.M. Composite Repair in Wind Turbine Blades: An Overview. J.
Adhes. 2015 ,91, 113–139. [CrossRef]
45. Cheng, L.; Tian, G.Y. Comparison of Nondestructive Testing Methods on Detection of Delaminations in Composites. J. Sens. 2012 ,
2012 , 408437. [CrossRef]
46. Marsh, G. Meeting the challenge of wind turbine blade repair. Reinf. Plast. 2011 ,55, 32–36. [CrossRef]
47. Khadka, A.; Fick, B.; Afshar, A.; Tavakoli, M.; Baqersad, J. Non-contact vibration monitoring of rotating wind turbines using a
semi-autonomous UAV . Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2020 ,138, 106446. [CrossRef]
48. Desmulliez, M.; Pavuluri, S.K.; Flynn, D.; Herd, D. Microwave Cavity Sensor. U.S. Patent 10024806B2, 7 November 2013.
Available: https://patents.google.com/patent/WO2013164627A1/en (accessed on 29 January 2023).
49. Blanche, J.; Flynn, D.; Lewis, H.; Couples, G.; Cheung, R. Analysis of geomaterials using frequency modulated continuous wave
radar in the X-band. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE 26th International Symposium on Industrial Electronics (ISIE), Edinburgh,
UK, 19–21 June 2017; pp. 1376–1381. [CrossRef]
50. Tang, W.; Mitchell, D.; Blanche, J.; Gupta, R.; Flynn, D. Machine Learning Analysis of Non-Destructive Evaluation Data from
Radar Inspection of Wind Turbine Blades. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE International Conference on Sensing, Diagnostics,
Prognostics, and Control (SDPC), Weihai, China, 13–15 August 2021; pp. 122–128. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Compos. Sci. 2023 ,7, 75 20 of 20
51. Blanche, J.; Mitchell, D.; Gupta, R.; Tang, A.; Flynn, D. Asset Integrity Monitoring of Wind Turbine Blades with Non-Destructive
Radar Sensing. In Proceedings of the 2020 11th IEEE Annual Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication
Conference (IEMCON), Vancouver, BC, Canada, 4–7 November 2020; pp. 498–504. [CrossRef]
52. Blanche, J.; Buckman, J.; Lewis, H.; Flynn, D.; Couples, G. Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave Analysis of Dynamic
Load Deformation in Geomaterials. In Proceedings of the Offshore Technology Conference, Houston, TX, USA, 4–7 May 2020.
[CrossRef]
53. Herd, D. Microwave Based Monitoring System for Corrosion under Insulation. Ph.D. Thesis, Heriot-Watt University, School of
Engineering and Physical Sciences, Edinburgh, UK, 2016.
54. Blanche, J.; Lewis, H.; Couples, G.D.; Buckman, J.; Lenoir, N.; Tengattini, A.; Flynn, D. Dynamic Fluid Ingress Detection in
Geomaterials Using K-Band Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave Radar. IEEE Access 2020 ,8, 111027–111041. [CrossRef]
55. Blanche, J.; Flynn, D.; Lewis, H.; Couples, G.D.; Buckman, J.; Bailey, C.; Tilford, T. Analysis of Sandstone Pore Space Fluid
Saturation and Mineralogy Variation via Application of Monostatic K-Band Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave Radar. IEEE
Access 2018 ,6, 44376–44389. [CrossRef]
56. Zaki, O.; Flynn, D.; Blanche, J.; Roe, J.; Kong, L.; Mitchell, D.; Lim, T.; Harper, S.; Robu, V . Self-Certiﬁcation and Safety Compliance
for Robotics Platforms. In Proceedings of the Offshore Technology Conference, Houston, TX, USA, 4–7 May 2020. [CrossRef]
57. Mitchell, D.; Blanche, J.; Zaki, O.; Roe, J.; Kong, L.; Harper, S.; Robu, V .; Lim, T.; Flynn, D. Symbiotic System of Systems Design for
Safe and Resilient Autonomous Robotics in Offshore Wind Farms. IEEE Access 2021 ,9, 141421–141452. [CrossRef]
58. Mitchell, D.; Blanche, J.; Harper, S.; Lim, T.; Gupta, R.; Zaki, O.; Tang, W.; Robu, V .; Watson, S.; Flynn, D. A review: Challenges
and opportunities for artiﬁcial intelligence and robotics in the offshore wind sector. Energy AI 2022 ,8, 100146. [CrossRef]
59. Gupta, R.; Mitchell, D.; Blanche, J.; Harper, S.; Tang, W.; Pancholi, K.; Baines, L.; Bucknall, D.G.; Flynn, D. A Review of Sensing
Technologies for Non-Destructive Evaluation of Structural Composite Materials. J. Compos. Sci. 2021 ,5, 319. [CrossRef]
60. Mitchell, D.; Blanche, J.; Flynn, D. An Evaluation of Millimeter-wave Radar Sensing for Civil Infrastructure. In Proceedings of
the 2020 11th IEEE Annual Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEMCON), Vancouver,
BC, Canada, 4–7 November 2020; pp. 216–222. [CrossRef]
61. Hill, R.M. Dielectric Properties and Materials. In Electronic Materials ; Miller L.S., Mullin J.B., Eds.; Springer: Boston, MA, USA,
1991.
62. Jureczko, M.; Pawlak, M.; M˛ e ˙zyk, A. Optimisation of wind turbine blades. J. Mater. Process. Technol. 2005 ,167, 463–471.
63. Grifﬁn, D.A.; Ashwill, T.D. Blade System Design Studies Volume I: Composite Technologies for Large Wind Turbine Blades. In
Composite Technologies for Large Wind Turbine Blades ; Sandia National Lab.(SNL-NM): Albuquerque, NM, USA; Sandia National
Lab.(SNL-CA): Livermore, CA, USA, 2002.
64. ltd, U.R. UR3e Robot. Available online: https://www.universal-robots.com/products/ur3-robot/ (accessed on 29 January 2023).
65. Kecman, V . Support Vector Machines—An Introduction. In Support Vector Machines: Theory and Applications ; Wang, L., Ed.;
Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2005; pp. 1–47. [CrossRef]
66. Friedman, N.; Geiger, D.; Goldszmidt, M. Bayesian network classiﬁers. Mach. Learn. 1997 ,29, 131–163. [CrossRef]
67. Buscema, M. Back propagation neural networks. Subst. Use Misuse 1998 ,33, 233–270. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
68. Rokach, L.; Maimon, O. Data Mining with Decision Trees , 2nd ed.; World Scientiﬁc: Singapore, 2014.
69. Jolliffe, I.T. Principal Component Analysis ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2002.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
