378 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies, 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390  
  
ISSN: 2617 -6548  
 
 
URL: www.ijirss.com  
 
 
 
 
Wind Turbines Control Trends and Challenges: An Overview  
 Mohamed G Moh Almihat1*,  Mohamed Tariq Kahn2 
 
1,2Centre for Distributed Power and Electronic Systems, Department of Electrical, Electronics and Computer Engineering, Faculty of 
Engineering, Cape Peninsula University of Technology, Bellville, 7535, Cape Town, South Africa.  
 
*Corresponding author: Mohamed G Moh Almih at (Email: almehat@gmail.com ) 
 
  
Abstract  
Wind turbines (WTs) create electricity by utilizing the energy of the wind. As a result, wind turbine control and cost -
effective operation were studied. The control system offers a long service life, maximum energy output, and safety. On 
control methods and control strategies, various ways for limiting and optimizing en ergy consumption were discussed. 
Integration of wind power may compromise the stability of the transient system. Asynchronous induction generators cannot 
handle the quantity of reactive power generated in wind energy applications. WTs are usually construct ed to withstand 
inclement weather but not for high speeds or torque. Strong aerodynamic torques or rotational speeds are capable of 
destroying WT blades. To prevent this, WTs always have a cutout speed over which the turbine will be stopped by its 
brakes. When excessive wind speeds endanger the safety of the turbines, the WT employs a range of control techniques. As 
a result, all WTs are constructed using a power control method. This can regulate pitch and stall. Passive or active stall 
control can be appli ed to the WT. Therefore, this study analyzed the associated technologies, the maintenance of wind 
turbines, the cost, the many types of wind turbine controllers, and the negative effects and roadblocks unique to the wind 
energy industry.  
 
 Keywords:  Consumption, Control methods, Energy, Renewable energy, Wind turbine.   
 
DOI: 10.53894/ijirss.v5i4.910  
Funding:  This study received no specific financial support.    
History: Received: 8 August  2022 /Revised: 7 October  2022 /Accepted: 21 October  2022 /Published: 4 November  2022  
Copyright:  © 2022 by the authors. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative 
Commons Attribution (CC BY) license ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses /by/4.0/ ). 
Authors’ Contributions: Both  authors contributed equally to the conception and design of the study.  
Competing Interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.  
Transparency: The authors confirm that the manuscript is an honest, accurate, and transparent account of the study; that no vital 
features of the study have been omitted; and that any discrepancies from the study as planned have been explained.  
Ethical: This study followed all ethical practices during writing.  
Publisher:  Innovative Research Publishing  
 
1. Introduction  
The increase in global energy consumption and hazardous gas emissions from traditional fossil fuels have made it 
imperative for every nation to improve the proportion of renewable energy such as wind turbines (WTs) in its energy 
balance [1]. Wind turbines harness the wind's energy to generate electricity. Variations in the axis of rotation, the number 
of blades, the control surfaces,  and the kind of generator are among the most common characteristics of wind turbines 
(Figure 1 ) [2]. The control literature has thoroughly explored three blades of upwind -facing horizontal axis wind turbine 
(HAWT); an active yaw system adjusts the blades vertically and perpendicularly in response to changes in wind direction 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
379 to establi sh rotor -blade alignment [3]. HAWTs are extensively scrutinized due to their market dominance and incorporation 
of active controls. Recently, wind turbines have become one of the most significant new sources of grid capacity in the 
United States [4]. As the number of wind turbines increases, it becomes increasingly vital to implement effective control 
systems. Independent systems operators (ISOs) desire additional control over turbine operations in a growing number of 
instances. It is anticipated tha t wind turbines will play a crucial role in ISOs' attempts to provide a continuous and 
dependable electricity supply [5].   
All generators must contribute to maintaining the grid's voltage and fr equency and reducing current harmonics. This 
harmonic is the first time wind turbines and farms have been classified as a positive load instead of a negative one, and the  
rest of the system has had to adapt to this very variable supply  [6]. 
 
 
Figure 1.  
Wind turbine.  
 
If reliability is achieved, active load reduction measures must be included in turbine control for wind turbines. 
Consequently, the equilibrium between usability and resilience can be adjusted in real  time [7]. The gap between high -level 
profit maximization and low -level turbine control cannot be bridged in a single step. As a result, we recommend that the 
behavior of the turbine be modified by utilizing dependability control. Each turbine experiences specific loads despite 
being sub jected to identical wind farm inflow circumstances. This study provides an overview of wind energy controller s 
that incorporate fatigue loads and energy production asset points. The wind turbine's real -time controller can be set using 
structural load data (Figure 2 ) [8]. 
 
 
Figure 2.   
Overview of wind turbine . 
 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
380 Even though other articles have carefully studied the various control approaches linked with wind systems, few 
research works have comprehensively reviewed the numerous control strategies associated with wind systems  [9]. MPPT 
procedures and WT pitch angle controls are two of the most recently explored control methods. Song et al. [10 ] did not 
discuss wind turbine pitch control despite investigating WT pitch angle controllers. The classification of WT operating 
regions is omitted by Jiang et al. [11 ]. Kumar et al. [12 ] did not discuss the pitch angle controller when  discussing pitch 
control methods; therefore, this paper addresses a key gap. The study also focuses on the connection between the power 
electronics and the WT grid. This article analyses the essential control concepts and methods/techniques for wind turbi ne 
control systems due to the significance of wind turbine control to their cost -effective and efficient operation. In addition to 
assuring a long service life, the control system ensures safe operation and maximizes energy output. When striving to limit 
and optimize energy consumption, the generator's speed and the turbine's rotational speed are the two most crucial aspects 
to consider —the Control Methods and Control Strategies sections of this article detail the implementation of various 
strategies.  
 
 
Figure 3.  
Wind power generation . 
 
2. Overview of Wind Turbine Advancements in the 21st Century  
Since 2000, wind power's average compound annual growth rate ( CAGR ) has increased by more than 21 percent 
(Figure 3 ). In 2010, the annual increases in conventional power capacity in several locations surpassed expanding 
renewable energy capacity. Wind power has been the second most prominent renewable energy technique for many 
decades, after hydropower. At the end of 2 018, onshore wind energy generated 542 gigawatt s (GW) of global installed 
capacity. Onshore wind power is one of the most cost -effective ways to add new produc tion capacity to the grid. Since 
2010, global onshore wind installations have decreased by 22%  c ompared to 2017, as China and India's low -cost 
constructions have spurred a substantial surge in deployment [5]. 
The North Sea and the adjacent Atlantic Ocean account for 90 percent of the world's offshore wind capacity. China 
contributed to over three -quarters of the world's new offshore wind capacity increases in 2016, with the United Kingdom 
and Germany each responsible for nearly a third (29 percent) of that total (22 percent). In the co ming years, efforts to 
increase deployment to North America and Oceania will commence. As the offshore wind industry grows, many nations 
establish offshore deployment objectives  [13]. 
Europe has long been the driving force behind the global deployment of wind power. In 2010, the region accounted for 
more than half of the world's onshore installations. However, other regions, particularly China, have experienced a CAGR 
of approximately 27%. China has almost a third of the global installed capacity and has surpassed Europe's onshore wind 
industry by 2018 ( Figure 2 ) [14]. The European Union (EU) financed a record amount of new wind generation capacity in 
2018 when 16,7 GW of pr ojects received a Final Investment Decision (FID). In 2018, funding for onshore wind farms 
averaged $1.54 million per megawatt (MW), while financing for offshore wind farms averaged $2.50 million per MW. 
Approximately 29.4 billion  US dollar s (USD) were inv ested in new wind farms.  
Wind energy costs have decreased mostly as a result of wind turbine innovations. Increases in wind turbines' rotor 
diameter and hub height enable the machines to generate more electricity in areas with lower wind speeds, larger rot ors 
with lower specific power can be advantageous. In 2018, much more wind turbines were installed than in 2015, when 3.3 
MW were installed. General Electric company 's (GE's ) most recent onshore turbine technologies range in power output 
from 4.8 MW to 5.3 MW. Siemens -5.8 Gamesa's MW turbine with a 170 -meter rotor diameter is currently the largest 
offshore turbine available  [15]. 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
381 The most expensive components of an offshore wind farm are the turbines (including towers), foundations, grid 
connection to land, and installation. The turbines account for around 45 percent of the total installation expenses for 
offshore wind power. As a result of technological advances, the price of wind turbines continues to decrease. In 2018, the 
overall installation cost was 5 percent less than in 2010 due to China's shallow coastal seas (5 –25 m from shore); Europe 
has higher total installation costs than China. By 2030 and 2050, the weighted average offshore wind turbine installation 
costs are projected to increase from  $1 700 to $3 200/kW and from $1 400 to $2 800/kW, respectively  [16]. 
After r eaching a record high of USD 27.6 billion in 2016, worldwide offshore wind investment dropped to USD 18.9 
billion in 2017 and is predicted to rebound to USD 19.4 billion in 2018. In 2018, China accounted for more than fifty 
percent of worldwide offshore wi nd investments, investing $11.4 billion in thirteen new offshore wind projects. The 
Chinese government has approved 6,7 GW of offshore wind power and around USD 18 billion for development in 2019  
[17]. 
Wind energy's intermittent nature can be mitigated by combining it with other renewable electricity sources, such as 
solar PV, hydropower, and storage technology, when resources are few. This would aid in addressing the intermittent issue. 
In 2012, the State Grid Corporation of China and Build Your  Dreams  (BYD) erected the world's first hybrid project  [18], 
which featured the world's first lithium -ion energy storage capacity unit. A maker of wind and solar turbines has announced 
its intent to construct a 43.2 MW plant with 2 MW battery storage. The global hybrid solar -wind energy market will reach 
USD 1.5 billion by 2025, with a CAGR of around 8.5% over the forecast period. The rise of solar -wind hybrid systems in 
China is anticipated to contin ue. Several governments have already adopted hybrid initiatives to address grid integration 
issues, and more are anticipated to do so in the future [8]. 
In the presence of low -cost renewable power generation, the energy transition's success hinges on integrating 
considerable amounts of VRE into power systems at the lowest possible cost. Approximately 10% of the G20 countries' 
current electricity generation comes from renewable source s. Denmark had 53 percent of the global VRE burden in 2017; 
South Australia had 48 percent; while Lithuania, Ireland, Spain, and Germany all had VRE burdens above 20 percent. 
China, India, and the United States, the world's three largest power systems, are  projected to account for more than 10 
percent of annual VRE generation over the coming decade. India's VRE generation capacity was 7.7 percent in 2017 and 
2018 and was on track to meet the 2019 goal of 9 percent. In 2017, 76 percent of the United States' electricity was 
generated by wind and solar power  [19]. 
In 2018, wind turbines were worth 50,3 billion do llars, followed by rotor blades at 15 percent, gearboxes at 7 percent, 
and generators at the remainder of the market (USD 50.3 billion). European makers of wind turbine technologies control a 
sizeable piece of the global industry. In 2018, 37 different man ufacturers installed 20,641 wind turbines worldwide ( Figure 
4). 
In 2018, 1.16 million people were employed in the global onshore and offshore wind industry. Compared to the solar 
PV industry, most wind jobs are concentrated in fe wer countries. North America and Europe accounted for less than a 
quarter of the global wind employment (each with slightly more than half a million jobs) (10 percent). China retained its 
position as the world's largest wind market in 2018, accounting for 44 percent of global wind employment (510 000 jobs) 
(Figure 4 ). The United States ranked second after Germany with 114 000 wind jobs at the end of 2018, an increase of 8%. 
Europe will be the third -largest onshore wind market behi nd China and the United States in three decades. As of 2018, 161 
GW of onshore capacity had been installed. The region contains an estimated 13,900 GW of land -based wind power. 
Europe's northern and central regions and the United Kingdom are good for onsho re installations  [20]. 
Particularly, blade, drivetrain, and control technologies developments may result in larger, more reliable turbines with 
increased capacity ratings. The size of wind turbines has inc reased dramatically during the past few decades —at the end of 
2018, the installation of offshore wind turbines with rotor diameters of approximately 150 meters. In 2018, European 
offshore wind farms with turbines with power outputs ranging from 3.5 MW to 8 .8 MW were commissioned [2].  
Significant milestones in the wind sector development have been reached, such as founding renowned wind energy 
organizations and installing new wind turbines. In 2020, renewable energy sources such as wind turbines and solar panels 
will be less expensive than the cheapest fossil fuels  [21]. 
Two essential concerns are replacing wind turbines nearing the end of their operational lifespans and repowering 
existing projects to extend thei r operational lifespans. The initial socioeconomic gains can be amplified by replacing aging 
components with newer ones and performing system -level maintenance and upgrades. Regulation or politics have not yet 
launched a repowering initiative. It is econom ically viable to replace older wind turbines in particular markets, even if they 
can last for many more years  [22]. In addition, repowering enables the most advanced turbines in places with the best 
onshore wind resources. The rising demand for wind turbines and related technolo gy represents a tremendous opportunity 
for investors. China's onshore wind industry will undoubtedly experience an increase in demand for key components and 
raw materials in the next decades, both domestically and internationally. Due to the cost -competiti veness of onshore wind 
compared to fossil fuel production sources, China will be able to develop large -scale, subsidy -free projects by 2021. 
Second, wind farm developers may benefit from grid expansion and infrastructure enhancements [4]. 
Advancements in wind turbines, wind farm development, and operations and maintenance contribute to the decline in 
offshore wind farm electricity prices. As a result of the development of new tur bines, larger wind farms can generate more 
electricity. Compared to smaller turbines with narrower swept areas, larger turbines with broader swept areas can generate 
more energy with the same supply quality.  
We anticipate that these technological advances  will continue beyond 2022 [3]. Industry professionals are developing 
designs for 15 MW turbines, and 20 MW turbines are anticipated. These turbines are anticipated to have greater capital 
costs per megawatt capacity than conventional turbines due to their supe rior energy production and reduced capital 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
382 expenditure  (CAPEX ) for foundations and installation. If dependability and maintenance are enhanced, operating expenses 
(OPEX ) and energy production could be reduced further. Fewer basic structures would be necessary to maintain the 
production capacity of a wind farm  [23]. 
On the other hand, these turbines would have taller blade tips, making them more visually intrusive if positioned near 
the coast. Technological developments in wind turbine foundations, which enable access to stronger wind resources, are 
among the most  critical factors accelerating the adoption of offshore wind. Commonly, 40 -meter -deep, 80 -kilometer -
distance turbines are installed today  [24]. In waters less than 60 meters deep, monopile or jacket foundations are employed 
to anchor these turbines to the seafloor. This is a severe disadvantage, as there are few shall ow-water locations in some of 
the most promising offshore wind markets, such as Japan and the United States  [25]. 
Due to the changing nature of wind and solar resources, the power system must undergo significant modifications in 
light of the growing contribution of variable renewable energy (VRE) in numerous markets. Efforts must be made to 
safeguard grid stability an d reliability as the amount of variable renewable energy production rises. As well as minute -by-
minute adjustments to the grid's operation and management, seasonal solar and wind output variations necessitate minute -
by-minute modifications [11]. 
 
 
Figure 4.  
Global advancement in Wind turbine . 
 
3. Challenges of Wind Power Regarding  Power System Stability  
Kooten and Timilsina [3 ] define "stability ” as the capacity of a power system, under typical operating conditions, to 
maintain or recover an acceptable equilibrium state. A disturbance could be caused by generators, loads, wires, 
transformers, or a failure. There is angular stability, which ensures th at the generator maintains synchronization to supply 
electricity. The relationship between the rotor angle and power angle determines this stability. Regarding stability, transie nt 
stability refers to stability that accounts for major system disturbances, whereas small signal stability accounts for 
disturbances of lesser scale. Problems with tiny signal stability arise when the operating parameters of a power system alter , 
and the system's oscillations are inadequately muted  [26]. 
Regarding the frequency stability of a system, think in terms of tens of tenths of a minute or less. Loss of generation is 
a frequent cause of frequency instability because it causes an imbalance between the load and generation. Inadequacies in 
the system,  such as sluggish control actions and lack of protective coordination, may impact frequency stability [5]. One or 
more of the bus voltages of the power system falls continuously, causing the prot ective devices to cause the power system 
to fail. Voltage collapses when a power system fails to balance the demand and supply of reactive power [4].  
Once upon a time, wind power plants were the only means of generating electricity. The utility ope rators are familiar 
with how these generators react to a disturbance because they have dealt with it numerous times  [27]. When wind energy 
was originally introduced, induction generators were utilized to create electricity due to their inexpensive cost, extended 
service life, and variable speed operation. When wind energ y was originally introduced, worries regarding its impact on the 
overall stability of a power system were minimal. The growing tendency of wind power integration may harm transient 
system stability ( Figure 5 ) [21]. 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
383 In wind power applications, asynchronous induction generators have a poor capacity to control the quantity of reactive 
power generated. In a surge in generator input torque and subsequent voltage reductions above the Point of Common 
Coupling ( PCC ) threshol d limit, reactive power demand could lead to insufficient feeder control and consequent voltage 
collapse [14]. Induction generators with a fixed speed incorporate reactive power compensators to fulfill the high network 
demand for reactive power. Reactive power is supplied by power electronics devices in the case of variable -speed 
generators. The critical clearing met hod is commonly utilized for transient stability tests. Excitation systems and voltage 
source static var compensators such as a static synchronous compensator ( STATCOM ) have been implemented to increase 
the ride -through performance of generators  [28]. 
 
 
Figure 5.  
Challenges and advancement of WT . 
 
4. Wind Turbine Control Method  
WTs are often constructed to withstand poor weather conditions, although they are not intended for exceptionally high 
speeds or rotating torque. If the WT blades are subjected to strong aerodynamic torques or rotational speeds, they can be 
broken apart. WT s always contain a cutout speed over which the brakes will bring the turbine to a stop to avoid this issue 
[1]. When high wind speeds pose a hazard to the turbines, the WT employs a range of control techniques to ensure the 
turbines' safety prior to the cutout speed. Consequently, all WTs employ a power control strategy in their construction. 
With this, either pitch control or stall control can be achieved. WT stall control can be classified as either passive or act ive 
[29]. As seen in Table 1 , this study identifies different wind turbine controller methods in association with previous studies.  
 
Table 1.   
Comparisons of different controllers.  
S/N Method  Ref 
1.  Real-Time Stall Power controller  [17]; [21]; [30-32]  
2.  Pitch Controller  [13-16]; [33]  
3.  Collective Pitch Controller  [14]; [21] 
4.  Individual Pitch Controller  [15]; [21] 
5.  Electric Pitch Controller  [13]; [16]; [33] 
6.  Hydraulic Pitch Controller  [16]; [33-36] 
7.  Robust Controller  [14]; [16]; [30]; [31]; [37]  
8.  User Interface Computer Controller  [14]; [17]; [30-32]; [37] 
9.  Conventional Controller  [17]; [33]; [37] 
10.  Hybrid Controller  [6]; [23]; [28]; [31]; [38]; [39]   
11.  Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) Controller  [1]; [10]; [31]; [39-41] 
12.  Operational Controller  [20]; [40]; [42]  
 
 
 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
384 4.1. Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) Controller Methods  
WT systems implement MPPT control algorithms to maximize the amount of wind energy gathered. When the wind 
speed exceeds the wind generator's rated speed, overload and surge protection are provi ded for wind generators using 
MPPT algorithms. The optimal MPPT algorithm for WTs is determined by user proficiency and skill. There are pros and 
downsides to each algorithm [2]. DPC and IPC are the two major MPPT algorithm types investigated in this study.  
Pustina et al. [15 ]; Do and Söffker [30 ]; Tavner et al. [43 ] carried out in -depth investigations on the different MPPT 
algorithms .  Hill-climb Search  (HCS ), optimal relation based  (ORB ), and  incremental conductance ( INC) are all direct 
power control ( DPC ) based approaches for obtaining maximum power point tracking. Several algorithms in this category 
utilize the HCS due to its versatility and simplicity .  It is feasible to achieve optimal tor que control (OTC) by employing 
three MPPT algorithms based on IPC: power signal feedback (PSF) and maximum power point tracking [1]; [10]; [31]; 
[39-41]. 
HCS requires no prior understanding  of WT features. The local maximum of a function can be determined using this 
method. The implementation is carried out utilizing a duty -cycle -controlled by direct current to direct current converter  
(DC-DC converter ). In this MPPT technique, the duty cyc le is altered discretely, and the slope of the objective function is 
watched until it reaches zero [39].  
The HCS method has various downsides, such as recognizing the wrong wind direction to attain the highest power  
point when the wind direction changes rapidly. As a remedy, a modified HCS algorithm was created by Hosseini et al. [41 ] 
which is capable of producing consistency between track speed and control ef ficiency to resolve the issue of incorrect 
directionality under variable wind conditions. Calculate the distance between the operating point and the ideal curve to 
calculate the direction and amplitude of the next disturbance.  
Applying the ORB -based MPPT a lgorithm must be a perfect relationship between WT output power, DC voltage, 
current, and speed. This algorithm has a significant advantage over conventional MPPT algorithms in tracking speed. With 
this MPPT approach, speed sensors and look -up tables are u nnecessary because the system curve has already been 
constructed. Following the MPP requires an awareness of typical curves between turbine power and direct current at 
varying wind speeds [10]. 
Regardless of sensor needs or wind turbine and generator settings, INC algorithms decrease system costs and increase 
dependability. This method provides benefits in terms of nonlinearity, dynamic reaction, and ease of implementation. The 
slope of the power -speed relationship establishes the operating point of the MPPT [40]. Regarding speed -power 
characteristics, positive and negative sloping curves have operating points on opposite ends of the spectrum. This method 
becomes unstable as wind conditions shift and turbine inertia changes. When addressing the issue of instabilit y, Apata and 
Oyedokun [40 ] introduce the fractional -order INC algorithm (FO -INC). The MPP is monitored with a configurable step 
size for rapidly changing feasible wind conditions to mi nimize unnecessary power losses.  
A power -speed curve that already exists can also be used to construct the ideal power. The controller decreases the 
difference between the actual and ideal power. Due to the need for an exact estimation of the optimal power  coefficient and 
tip speed ratio, this approach has several limitations [31]. 
To maximize wind energy output, algorithms that utilize t he tip speed ratio (TSR) maintain the ratio of blade tip speed 
to rotor speed at a maximum value regardless of wind variations. The difference between real and ideal values must be 
supplied into a feedback controller to be effective. To reduce inaccuracy, the controller reduces the generator's speed. A 
torque/power reference is established based on the speed deviation, which is then changed to reduce the speed deviation. 
Despite its simple implementation and excellent efficiency, the TSR -based MPPT controll er has a high operating cost. As 
previously stated, the MPPT method has a significant problem [40]. 
To maintain the generator's optimal torque, a controller can determine a maximum power reference based on the actual 
torque using an error signal. This method is straightforward, efficient, and surprisingly rapid. There is a disadvantage 
inherent in the inability to assess wind speed directly. As a result, the reference signal will not reflect changes in wind 
speed [21]. 
 
4.2. User -Interface Computer Controller  
The controllers can respond rapidly and precisely to environmental changes that may impact the wind energy system 
using artificial intelligence techniques. These controllers typically employ metaheuristic algorithms, Artiﬁcial neural 
networks ( ANNs ), and Fuzzy logic controls ( FLCs ). Fuzzy logic controls are gaining popularity among WTs due to their 
adaptability and user -friendliness  [17]; [21]; [32]; [37]. The effectiveness of a fuzzy logic controll er is determined by the 
user's comprehension of the controller. Due to FLC's memory needs, WT control is highly constrained. Lara et al. [13 ] 
discovered that adopting an FLC -based controller improved the microgrid's performance. Comparing this technology to the 
battery storage method for microgrid frequency deviation control demo nstrates its simplicity. An FLC study of a low -speed 
wind system can be accomplished by creating a reference power using WT and subtracting it from the actual generator 
power. This method's high price tag is a downside. According to Apata and Oyedo kun [22 ], this controller was developed 
to compensate for wind speeds below average by adjusting output based on wind velocity.  
ANN serves as a control approach for various control systems. Possible inputs include rotor speed, output torque, wind 
speed,  pitch angle, and terminal voltage. A WT controller based on ANN permits maximum output at wind speeds above 
the rated speed. Using ANN techniques, it is also possible to estimate the nonlinear properties of the WT  [17]; [30]. 
When the wind speed is moderate, meta heuristic pitch angle controllers based on evolutionary algorithms can maintain 
system stability. When adjusting the generator's speed, it is customary to employ a control signal based on the reference 
speed  [17]; [22]. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
385  
4.3. Robust Controller  
Several authors  [14]; [16]; [37] have investigated the robust pitch angle controller. With this controller, it is reasonable 
to assume that it  is highly effective, responsive to uncertainty, and stable. The negative aspect of this controller's control 
mechanism is its intricacy. A second issue with the pitch controller is a rise in mechanical stress caused by rapid changes i n 
control variables. To deploy trustworthy controllers, one must have a thorough understanding of the mechanical model of 
the WT system. Integrating feedback, feedforward, and sliding -mode control (SMC) in WT systems improves pitch angle 
control stability  [14]; [30]; [31]; [37]. 
 
4.4. Conventional Controller  
The majority of wind energy systems are conventional. A proportional –integral –derivative controller  (PID) and a 
proportional –integral (PI)  are commonly utilized to govern the rotor speed and output power. They are appropriate for 
smaller WT systems. Pitch angle is normally determined by conventional controllers using wind speed, generator power, 
and rotor rotation speed. Extensive research has b een conducted regarding traditional controls. Despite the controllers' 
usability, accurate wind speed measurements are impossible. In other words, this controller is extremely responsive. 
Traditional controllers that regulate pitch angle based on rotor spe ed and generator power are the most efficient and 
trustworthy  [33]; [37]. 
A classical controller can improve the performance of a nonlinear system through gain scheduling. This approach 
lowers the aerodynamic torque effect of changing pitch angles. As the controller gain rises, the system's sensitivity falls. 
Therefore, controll er gain scheduling improves control system dependability [17]. 
 
4.5. Operational Cont roller  
WT systems can be better managed with the emergence of power electronic interfaces, especially when connecting 
with the utility grid. Both grid -side and machine -side converters require a power electronic system interface to handle WT 
systems. The G SC guarantees that the WT system is effectively integrated into the grid by regulating the dc -link voltage 
and minimizing power losses. DPC and voltage -oriented control (VOC) are examples of GSC variants  [40]; [42]. 
Using the DPC approach, the active and reactive power of the WT system may be properly regulated. Absent are pulse 
width modulation blocks and an inner current control loop. Reactive power must be zero to have a power factor of one [20]. 
The primary benefit of this control is reducing calculation time and system complexity. Despite the diversity of parameter 
modifications, the DPC system is dynamic and resistant to u ncertainty. The DPC's high power factor results from its 
straightforward algorithm and architecture [40].  
VOC resembles field -oriented control with a converter when utilized on the machine side. Both approaches utiliz e 
dual-loop control, but VOC tries to reduce power ripple while enhancing power quality  [34]. Using an internal current 
control loop and an external PI control loop in the dc -link voltage and current control loops allows for synchronized 
reference frame control. The DC connection voltage is sensed immediately to respond rapidly and perform consis tently. 
This method incurs a total harmonic distortion penalty when the line voltage is distorted [11]. 
Machine side converter (MSC ) is responsible for harvesting the highest amount of wind energy possible by regulating 
the variable speed functioning of the WT system. When a wind turbine's rotor speed is set to its maximum level, energy 
output and system stability are enhanced. The MSC uses direct torque c ontrol (DTC) and field-oriented contr ol (FOC) 
technology. The dynamic performance of both control strategies is remarkably comparable  [44]. 
Two of FOC's key characteristics are direct control of current and utilization of the entire line current for torque 
generation. This control mechanism is implemented using dual -loop control. The speed and location of the rotors regulate 
the outside loop, while the synchronous  reference frame governs the inner loop  [32]. Setting the d -axis to zero makes it 
possible to lower stator current to an absolute minimum, which minimizes the related electromagnetic torque. T he q-axis of 
stator current regulates the electromagnetic torque.  
A change of the reference frame, such as the FOC, is unnecessary for the DTC approach, which employs a single outer 
loop control. If required, the switching pulse of the converter can be de termined from the flux angle. Managing torque and 
power enhances the system's responsiveness and simplifies it. Additionally, it eliminates rotor speed sensors, has a faster 
response time and does not need a current regulation loop. In contrast, the oscill ating torque and current wave constrain the 
performance evaluation of the direct torque controller. The disadvantage of direct torque control is that it requires a 
consistent switching frequency [45]. 
 
4.6. Hybrid Controller  
A hybrid pitch controller combines the advantages of both types of pitch controllers. This gadget was created to 
overcome the constraints of the standard controller to maximize the overall capabilities of the WT system  [6]; [39]. The 
controller's capabilities permit a reduction in system complexity and improved system stability. The fundamental advantage 
of this controller for nonlinear systems is that it provides a dependable solution, while the principal disadvantage is that it 
increases the cost of the entire system [38]. 
 
4.7. Real-Time Stall Power Controller  
Passive management's apparent failure led to active po wer control for stalling —blades with adjustable pitch and an 
integrated battery. With pitchable blades and active power control mechanisms, these closely resemble pitch -controlled 
WTs. Fixed -speed WTs that operate in high -wind situations and larger WTs wit h at least 1 MW ratings can take advantage 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
386 of this capacity. By gently pitching them, WT blades may generate a large amount of torque in low -wind conditions. 
Instead of decreasing lift and rotation speed by decreasing the angle of attack, WT active stall c ontrol increases the angle of 
attack  [17]; [21]; [31]; [33]. 
Active stall control permits greater control over the WT's power output at the beginning of a wind gust than passive 
stall control. Active stall management is superior to passive stall control because it permits the WT to sustain r ated power 
under all scenarios of strong wind. The rotor blades of a wind turbine with passive stall control tend to enter a deeper stal l 
as wind speed increases, decreasing electrical output  [13]; [15]; [17]; [37]. 
 
4.8. Pitch Controller  
In pitch -controlled WTs, electronic controllers continuously check the WT's output power. The blades are turned away 
from the wind to prevent the turbine from creating too much energy. By aligning the blades with the wind, energy 
consumption can be decreased. The WT blades can be positioned to capture the same amount of elect ricity as wind turbines 
to reduce power loss. The torque and rotational speed can be decreased by altering the pitch angle of WT blades 
dynamically. Due to high wind speeds and aerodynamic torques, this management method frequently minimizes equipment 
dama ge [15]; [36]; [40]; [46]. 
The distinction between WT pitch controls and stall controls becomes evident at high speeds. In systems that use active 
blade pitch modification to vary aerodynamic thrust or turbine rotational speed, the aerodynamic design of turbine blades is 
crucial for hig h wind speeds. Pitch -controlled systems, in contrast, can produce a continuous energy output above the 
maximum wind speed  [34]; [47]. Wind turbine blades (WT) can be utilized in pitch control and stall management. The 
mode of operation changes when the WT blades are rotated. When the WT active stall control is enabled, the lift force of 
the turbine blades is decreased by actively stall ing them. Individual pitch control (IPC) and group pitch control (GPC) are 
the two strategies usually used for WT collective  pitch control (CPC). Both electric and hydraulic controllers apply to both 
control systems  [1]; [36]; [48]. 
 
4.9. Collective Pitch Controller  
In most commercial wind turbines (WTs), collective pitch control is accomplished using the same control for every 
WT blade. If independent servomechanisms exist, th e pitch of each WT blade will be the same. Using standard 
proportional -integral (PI) equations to regulate rotor speed limits the amount of wind energy that may be captured. The 
variable under control is the collective pitch of the blades, which differs fr om the reference rotor speed  [14]; [21]; [48]. 
There have been numerous inquiries into the CPC as Kim et al. [14 ] discovered that CPC efficiently regulated WT. 
Although CPC systems wer e initially utilized for PI control with gain scheduling, they are currently being investigated. 
Uncertainty modeling has resulted in the creation of adaptive and robust methods. A CPC strategy for rejecting WT 
disturbances is presented by Kim et al. [14 ]. This adaptive approach was examined to determine if it might prevent the 
excitation o f modal WT subsystems in turbulent wind conditions. The assumption that all WT blades have identical 
physical attributes and are consequently subjected to identical aerodynamic loads during operation is a significant error in 
the CPC method. As a result, t he rotor disc is subjected to unbalanced loads, which increases the WT's stress and the 
chance of failure  [48]. 
 
4.10. Individual Pitch Controller  
By altering the pitch angle on an individual basis, it is possible to lessen mechanical loads. The IPC is a relatively 
recent addition to the WT family in pitch control. Despite years of development, it has not yet been applied commercially 
in WTs. Future WTs with larger and more flexible blades will support this research. Utilizing this method for analyzing 
tower displacement can reduce fatigue -related damage and load  [21]. As implied by the name, each WT blade is controlled 
by its sensors. By modifying the pitch angle of IPC's products , structural vibrations can be mitigated. Because IPC in WTs 
requires additional sensors and separate pitch orders for each blade, WT control systems are multiple -input multiple -output 
(MIMO ). For WTs with blades equipped with separate pitch actuators, the reliability of the sensors is a significant 
consideration when employing this technology  [11]; [47]; [49]. 
 
4.11. Electric Pitch Controller  
Electromechanical actuators manage the WT blade in the electric pitch controller. The gearbox design incorporates 
pitch control devices for blackouts and energy storage. Without a backup power source, installation is prohibitively costly. 
There have been numerous investigations on electrical pitch angle controllers. The regular pitch controller, the soft 
computation pitch controller, the robust pitch controller, and the hybrid pitch controller were inve stigated and compared  
[1]; [26]; [33]; [49]. 
 
4.12. Hydraulic Pitch Controller  
An accumulator tank provides linear movement of the wind turbine blades for the hydraulic pitch controller, which 
uses a hydraulic actuator. The WT's hydraulic pump nacelle generates rotational energy for the blad es. Hydraulic pitch 
controls have been the focus of various experiments. Studies [46-50] in the last few years, however, have centered on a 
detailed dynamic analysis and the most effective control app roaches, hydraulic pitch controller models, and reliability. 
According to this study, hydraulic pitch changes sustain WT output power by reducing variances in powertrain torque. In 
addition, online fault compensation solutions can determine the incidence o f an issue in real  time [34-36]. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
387 Hydraulic pitch controls are more robust to nonlinear aspects of wind speed th an electromechanical pitch controls. This 
controller's initial installation cost is cheaper than an electromechanical controller [12]. Another notable characteristic of 
this WT's control system is its ability to operate without external power sources in emergency control circumstances. Aside 
from that, it is highly resistant to vibrations and quite trustworthy. The hydraulic controller' s fundamental drawback is its 
exorbitantly expensive running and maintenance expenses [36]. 
 
5. Evaluation of Advanced Wind Turbine Controller  
Research in wind energy has focused largely on safety, reliability, cost reduction, and power quality improvement. 
Effective control mechanisms must be built to manage a wide range of objective concerns to fulfill these aims.  
Installing and maintaining wi nd turbines that can endure extreme weather and sea conditions is simpler than turbines 
that cannot. In order to bypass road/rail travel constraints, the supply chain will need to construct production and assembly  
sites near the coast over the next decade.  Wind turbine manufacturers are also developing offshore wind turbines that float 
[37]. Floating wind turbi nes can be carried and connected to the seafloor since they can be constructed and maintained on 
land. Enhanced condition monitoring systems, lighter -than-average rotors, and taller, more innovative towers are just a few 
advancements that hint at a prosper ous future for innovation. Patents and innovations will decrease component weight, 
production costs, transport and assembly, monitoring and control, turbine reliability (integration), grid integration, and 
performance maximization. The most ambitious resea rch and development ( R&D ) objective for 50 -MW offshore wind 
turbines is to develop rotor blades longer than 200 meters. This design is 2.5 times longer and six times more powerful than 
existing turbines and blades  [5]; [17]; [23]; [24]; [47]; [49]; [50]. 
Cost and turbine technology are crucial factors to consider when adopting a control approach. Fixed -speed WTs have 
significantly increased WT deployments in Africa and around the wor ld. For WTs with a set speed, passive stall control has 
been replaced by active stall control, which is more efficient and less costly  [42]. If residing in a location with high wind 
speeds, it is highly suggested that the variable -speed wind system include pitch control. Pitch control for Due to the 
emergence of big variable -speed WTs, the prevalence of WTs is growing. In WT systems, electric al or hydraulic 
controllers may be employed. There has been some debate on whether the controller is superior. They believe that electric 
pitch controllers are better for the environment than hydraulic pitch controllers because hydraulic fluids cannot leak  under 
high pressure  [17]; [18]; [22]; [29]. 
In contrast, hydraulics requires a continuously operati ng pump, which increases the risk of energy waste. This pump is 
required to maintain high oil pressure and be prepared to rotate the rotor blades at any moment. Electric pitch controls, in 
contrast, are susceptible to battery and capacitor failure. An elec tric pitch control system's battery life per charge is two and 
three years. The electric pitch controller is more suitable for use in cooler climates. As temperature drops, the viscosity o f 
hydraulic oil falls  [16]; [19]; [21]; [45]. 
Therefore, the hydraulic controller is suitable for usage in regions with warmer climates, such as Afric a. In warmer 
climates, electric pitch controllers can be implemented. In addition, the hydraulic system's quickness and dependability 
merit recognition. Due to the low cost of the hydraulic fluid used to adjust the pitch, the system's oil consumption is 
modest. Although hydraulic systems are more challenging to diagnose, they are less complicated to maintain  [29]; [51]; 
[52]. 
However, it is possible to control the pitch of WT systems with a hybrid controller. The turbine blades are rotated 
electrically by a hybrid pitch control controller, while the failsafe systems that protect the blades are controlled 
hydraulically. Due to the hybrid control system's reliance on a hydraulic system for failsafe power, oil leakage is less like ly 
because pitch control is mostly powered by electricity, reducing energy costs  [9]; [53]. 
Multiple WT subsystems' structural loads must be decreased. If the IPC is properly explored, it can significantly reduce 
the stress on the rotor blades. IPC can reduce fluctuations in wind turbine output power, stabilizing output and improving  
grid quality, whereas CPC can be used to regulate rotor speed at high wind speeds. Multiple control strategies can 
simultaneously minimize structural loads on WT subsystems. However, these tactics cannot be employed simultaneously. 
Ongoing research into w ind energy system optimization and intelligent control should enhance WT control in future IPC 
tests [16]; [32]; [54]. 
Multiple techniques exist for determining the optimal WT frequency, making it difficult to select an MPPT technique. 
These strategies' complexity, convergence speed, and performance requirements must be investigated in depth. In contrast 
to DPC -based algorithms, IPC -based TSR and PSF algorithms are simpler to build and execute more quickly. The 
disadvanta ge is that mechanical wind power is maximized rather than electrical power. As it does not directly monitor wind 
speed, the OTC method is less efficient than the TSR algorithm, albeit faster  [11]; [17]; [52]. The reference torque does not 
instantly reflect changes in wind velocity. Although the TSR algorithm permits a rapid response to fluctuating wind 
conditions, its implementation is expensive; therefore, the WT system will be expensive. The performance and complexity 
of the PSF algorithm are comparable to  those of the OTC. DPC approaches are more dependable, cost -effective, and 
memory -efficient. These algorithms can correctly evaluate available electric power sources without prior wind speed 
information. Due to their lower performance in variable wind situ ations, DPC algorithms have a limited application area. 
Currently, wind energy system designers and engineers cannot identify the optimal MPPT method for a WT installation due 
to a lack of approaches or criteria. Additional research may be required to dete rmine the most suitable MPPT method for a 
specific application  [38-40]; [53]. 
Due to LIDAR's high expense, its use in WT control has been limited for nearly four decades. It has been suggested 
that LIDAR -based feedforward control be added to the baseline control system to improve pitch control. An initial 
objective is t o create independent feedforward controllers that incorporate wind data as an input and compensate for control 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
388 system interruptions caused by wind. This device measures wind speed using sensors before the wind reaches the WT. It 
has time to react when it r eceives output control signals from the WT. In order to prevent uneven pressures on rotor blades, 
it is possible to initiate pitch actuation in large WTs with enormous blades. Even though this technology has been around 
for a while, it has been exhaustivel y investigated and is essential for the future regulation of WTs  [1, 2, 26]. Model 
predictive control (MPC) is predominantly utilized  to regulate  Light Detection and Ranging  (LIDAR ) systems. Rule 
optimization takes future conditions into account. These upcoming conditions can be predicted using LIDAR data on the 
wind speed in front of the rotor. LIDAR can be used to implement feedforward control. LIDAR -assisted control can 
improve low -rated activities, although additional control actions are required. For the previously described pitch control, 
LIDAR readings may be superior. Currently, LIDAR cannot be used commercially in WTs,  demanding substantial study   
[17]; [43]; [50]; [52]. 
Utilizing intelligent rotors for the control of WTs is a recent innovation. Future WTs will be lighter because of the 
research conducted in this vital field. The WT blades are equipped with sensors, actuators, and embedded intelligence to 
achieve this objective. Instead of pitch angle control, each WT rotor blade is controlled by an individual actuator. In other  
words, this results in an intelligent, quick -response rotor. As active load management devices, trailing edge flaps, micro 
tabs, a ctive blade twists, and boundary layer control have all been proposed. Intelligent rotors are being considered as a 
substitute. On the other hand, intelligent rotors would assist pitch control systems  [4]; [9]; [12]; [35]. 
 
6. Conclusion  
An assessment of the trend and challenges of wind power was undertaken in this study by examining the associated 
technology, maintenance of wind turbines, cost, different types of wind turbine controllers, and detrimental consequences 
and obstacles unique to the wind industry. It has been proved that wind turbines can supply sufficient electricity to meet th e 
needs of transmissi on system operators. However, the full potential of wind turbines was examined. Although more 
research is required, the literature describes different strategies for dealing with the various controller forms. Future win d 
turbines will feature larger rotors  constructed from novel materials, allowing them to catch more energy. It is anticipated 
that the amount of waste generated by wind turbines at the end of their service life will increase dramatically and must be 
managed responsibly.  
References  
[1] E. J. N. Menezes, A. M. Araújo, and N. S. B. Da Silva, "A review on wind turbine control and its associated methods," Journal 
of Cleaner Production, vol. 174, pp. 945 -953, 2018.Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.10.297.  
[2] S. A. Frost, M. J. Balas, and A. D. Wright, "Direct adaptive control of a utility -scale wind turbine for speed regulation," 
International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control: IFAC -Affiliated Journal, vol. 19, pp. 59 -71, 2009.Available at: 
https://doi.o rg/10.1002/rnc.1329.  
[3] V. G. Kooten and G. Timilsina, "Wind power development: Opportunities and challenges," ed. University of Victoria, 
Department of Economics, Resource Economics and Policy Analysis Research Group, Working Papers, 2008.  
[4] E. Konstan tinidis and P. Botsaris, "Wind turbines: current status, obstacles, trends and technologies," presented at the IOP 
Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering, 2016.  
[5] J. G. Njiri and D. Söffker, "State -of-the-art in wind turbine control: Trends  and challenges," Renewable and Sustainable 
Energy Reviews, vol. 60, pp. 377 -393, 2016.Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2016.01.110.  
[6] W. O. Idris, M. Z. Ibrahim, and A. Albani, "The status of the development of wind energy in Nigeria," Energ ies, vol. 13, pp. 
1-16, 2020.Available at: https://doi.org/10.3390/en13236219.  
[7] H.-J. Wagner and J. Mathur, Operation and control of wind energy converters,” in introduction to wind energy systems . 
Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2018.  
[8] P. Skvorc and H. Kozmar, "Wind energy harnessing on tall buildings in urban environments," Renewable and Sustainable 
Energy Reviews, vol. 152, p. 111662, 2021.Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2021.111662.  
[9] M. Sawant, S. Thakare, A. P. Rao, A. E.  Feijóo -Lorenzo, and N. D. Bokde, "A review on state -of-the-art reviews in wind -
turbine -and wind -farm -related topics," Energies, vol. 14, pp. 1 -30, 2021.Available at: https://doi.org/10.3390/en14082041.  
[10]  D. Song, J. Yang, M. Su, A. Liu, Y. Liu, and Y. H. Joo, "A comparison study between two MPPT control methods for a large 
variable -speed wind turbine under different wind speed characteristics," Energies, vol. 10, pp. 1 –18, 2017.Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.3390/en10050613.  
[11]  Z. Jiang, Z. Chen, W. Liu, Y. Liu, and X. Wang, "A review of individual pitch control for wind turbines," presented at the in 
2016 IEEE 11th Conference on Industrial Electronics and Applications (ICIEA), Hefei, China, 2016.  
[12]  A. Kumar, D. Pal, S. K. Kar, S. K. Mishr a, and R. Bansal, "An overview of wind energy development and policy initiatives in 
India," Clean Technologies and Environmental Policy, pp. 1 -22, 2022.  
[13]  M. Lara, J. Garrido, M. L. Ruz, and F. Vázquez, "Adaptive pitch controller of a large -scale wind t urbine using multi -objective 
optimization," Applied Sciences, vol. 11, pp. 1 -24, 2021.Available at: https://doi.org/10.3390/app11062844.  
[14]  T. Kim, Q. Hawari, C. Ward, and J. Fleming, "A robust gain scheduling method for a PI collective pitch controller of multi -
MW onshore wind turbines," Renewable Energy, vol. 192, pp. 443 -455, 2022.Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2022.04.117.  
[15]  L. Pustina, C. Pasquali, J. Serafini, C. Lugni, and M. Gennaretti, "Individual blade pitch control for allevi ation of vibratory 
loads on floating offshore wind turbines," presented at the in International Conference on Offshore Mechanics and Arctic 
Engineering, American Society of Mechanical Engineers., 2021.  
[16]  V. L. Narayanan, R. Ramakrishnan, and R. Rengaswa my, "Real -Time testing of novel robust digital pitch controller for 
digital hydraulic pitch system in wind turbine," Energy Sources, Part A: Recovery, Utilization, and Environmental Effects, 
vol. 44, pp. 3477 -3496, 2022.Available at: https://doi.org/10.108 0/15567036.2022.2064944.  
[17]  M. Anburaj and C. Perumal, "Fatigue mitigation of wind turbine system using multiple point model predictive control," 
International Journal of Power Electronics and Drive Systems, vol. 12, pp. 1 -12, 2021.Available at: 
https:// doi.org/10.11591/ijpeds.v12.i4.pp2261 -2272.  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
389 [18]  M. A. Abdullah, A. H. M. Yatim, C. W. Tan, and A. S. Samosir, "Particle swarm optimization -based maximum power point 
tracking algorithm for wind energy conversion system," presented at the in 2012 IEEE Inter national Conference on Power 
and Energy (PECon), Kota Kinabalu, Malaysia, 2012.  
[19]  M. Wiens, S. Frahm, P. Thomas, and S. Kahn, "Holistic simulation of wind turbines with fully aero -elastic and electrical 
model," Forschung im Ingenieurwesen, vol. 85, pp. 417-424, 2021.Available at: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10010 -021-00479 -
6. 
[20]  Z. Zhao, W. Shi, W. Wang, S. Qi, and X. Li, "Dynamic analysis of a novel semi -submersible platform for a 10 MW wind 
turbine in intermediate water depth," Ocean Engineering, vol. 2 37, p. 109688, 2021.  
[21]  C. Zhang, "A contribution to nonlinear control of floating wind turbines," Doctoral Dissertation, Nantes Central School, 
2021.  
[22]  O. Apata and D. T. O. Oyedokun, "Novel reactive power compensation technique for fixed speed wind turbine generators," 
presented at the in 2018 IEEE PES/IAS PowerAfrica, Cape Town, 2018.  
[23]  S. Falani, M. González, F. Barreto, J. Toledo, and A. Torkomian, "Trends in the technological development of wind energy 
generation," International Journal of Technology Management and Sustainable Development, vol. 19, pp. 43 –68, 
2020.Available at: https:/ /doi.org/10.1386/tmsd_00015_1.  
[24]  K. T. Ma, Y. Wu, S. F. Stolen, L. Bello, M. Ver der Horst, and Y. Luo, "Mooring designs for floating offshore Wwind 
turbines leveraging experience from the oil & gas industry," presented at the In International Conferenc e on Offshore 
Mechanics and Arctic Engineering, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 2021.  
[25]  S. Liu, "The development of renewable energy: A comparative analysis of renewable energy policies and political structures 
between china and the United Sta tes," MSc Thesis, 2019.  
[26]  E. Hosseini, E. Aghadavoodi, G. Shahgholian, and H. Mahdavi -Nasab, "Intelligent pitch angle control based on gain -
scheduled recurrent ANFIS," Journal of Renewable Energy and Environment, vol. 6, pp. 36 -45, 2019.  
[27]  D. R. Houc k, "Review of wake management techniques for wind turbines," Wind Energy, vol. 25, pp. 195 -220, 2022.  
[28]  S. Lalouni, D. Rekioua, K. Idjdarene, and A. Tounzi, "Maximum power point tracking based hybrid hill -climb search method 
applied to wind energy conve rsion system," Electric Power Components and Systems, vol. 43, pp. 1028 -1038, 2015.Available 
at: https://doi.org/10.1080/15325008.2014.999143.  
[29]  J. Bao, H. Yue, W. E. Leithead, and J. -Q. Wang, "Feedforward control for wind turbine load reduction with Ps eudo -LIDAR 
measurement," International Journal of Automation and Computing, vol. 15, pp. 142 –155, 2018.Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11633 -017-1103 -x. 
[30]  M. H. Do and D. Söffker, "Wind turbine robust disturbance accommodating control using non ‐smooth H ∞ optimization," 
Wind Energy, vol. 25, pp. 107 -124, 2022.  
[31]  A. Nouriani and H. Moradi, "Variable speed wind turbine power control: A comparison between multiple MPPT based 
methods," International Journal of Dynamics and Control, vol. 10, pp. 654 -667, 2022.Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s40435 -021-00784 -6. 
[32]  N. Requate and T. Meyer, "Active control of the reliability of wind turbines," IFAC -Pap, vol. 53, pp. 12789 -12796, 
2020.Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2020.12.1941.  
[33] V. Narayanan and R. Ramachandran, "Fuzzy logic based digital hydraulics control of blade pitch angle in wind turbines," 
presented at the IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering, 2021.  
[34]  L. Chen, F. Shi, and R. Patton, "Active FTC for  hydraulic pitch system for an offshore wind turbine," presented at the in 
2013 Conference on Control and Fault -Tolerant Systems (SysTol), Nice, France, 2013.  
[35]  Y. Kong and Z. Wang, "Modelling and analysing the hydraulic variable -pitch mechanism for a v ariable -speed wind turbine," 
Wind Engineering, vol. 31, pp. 341 -352, 2007.Available at: https://doi.org/10.1260/030952407783418711.  
[36]  X. Yang, J. Li, W. Liu, and P. Guo, "Petri net model and reliability evaluation for wind turbine hydraulic variable pitch 
systems," Energies, vol. 4, pp. 978 -997, 2011.Available at: https://doi.org/10.3390/en4060978.  
[37]  S. Boubzizi, H. Abid, and M. Chaab ane, "Comparative study of three types of controllers for DFIG in wind energy conversion 
system," Protection and Control of Modern Power Systems, vol. 3, pp. 1 -12, 2018.Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1186/s41601 -018-0096 -y. 
[38]  A. Bouaouda and Y. Sayouti, "Hybrid meta -heuristic algorithms for optimal sizing of hybrid renewable energy system: A 
review of the state -of-the-art," Archives of Computational Methods in Engineering, pp. 1 -35, 2022.Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s1 1831 -022-09730 -x. 
[39]  J. Pande, P. Nasikkar, K. Kotecha, and V. Varadarajan, "A review of maximum power point tracking algorithms for wind 
energy conversion systems," Journal of Marine Science and Engineering, vol. 9, pp. 1 -30, 2021.Available at: 
https:// doi.org/10.3390/jmse9111187.  
[40]  O. Apata and D. T. O. Oyedokun, "An overview of control techniques for wind turbine systems," Scientific African, vol. 10, p. 
e00566, 2020.Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sciaf.2020.e00566.  
[41]  S. H. Hosseini, A. Farakhor, and S. K. Haghighian, "Novel algorithm of maximum power point tracking (MPPT) for variable 
speed PMSG wind generation systems through model predictive control," presented at the in 2013 8th International 
Conference on Electrical and Electronics E ngineering (ELECO), Bursa, Turkey, 2013.  
[42]  V. Rezaei, "Advanced control of wind turbines: Brief survey, categorization, and challenges," presented at the In 2015 
American Control Conference (ACC), IEEE, 2015.  
[43]  P. Tavner, J. Xiang, and F. Spinato, "R eliability analysis for wind turbines," Wind Energy: An International Journal for 
Progress and Applications in Wind Power Conversion Technology, vol. 10, pp. 1 -18, 2007.  
[44]  B. Loza, J. Pacheco -Chérrez, D. Cárdenas, L. I. Minchala, and O. Probst, "Compara tive fatigue life assessment of wind turbine 
blades operating with different regulation schemes," Applied Sciences, vol. 9, p. 4632, 2019.Available at: 
https://doi.org/10.3390/app9214632.  
[45]  F. Tadeo, M. Nachidi, and V. Lepine, "Power and Water for an of f-grid resort," presented at the in 2021 25th International 
Conference on Methods and Models in Automation and Robotics (MMAR), Mi ędzyzdroje, Poland, 2021.  
[46]  Y. Liu, R. Ferrari, and J. -W. van Wingerden, "Load reduction for wind turbines: An output -const rained, subspace predictive 
repetitive control approach," Wind Energy Science, vol. 7, pp. 523 -537, 2022.Available at: https://doi.org/10.5194/wes -7-
523-2022.  
[47]  Z. J. Chen and K. A. Stol, "An assessment of the effectiveness of individual pitch control o n upscaled wind turbines," 
presented at the Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 2014.  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , 5(4) 2022 , pages: 378-390 
390 [48]  D. Schlipf, P. Fleming, F. Haizmann, A. Scholbrock, M. Hofsäß, A. Wright, and P. W. Cheng, "Field testing of feedforward 
collective pitch control on the CART2 usi ng a nacelle -based lidar scanner," presented at the in Journal of Physics: 
Conference Series, IOP Publishing, 2014.  
[49]  R. B. Morim, "Analysis of wind turbine power generation with individual pitch control," presented at the in 2019 IEEE PES 
Innovative Sm art Grid Technologies Conference - Latin America (ISGT Latin America), Gramado, Brazil, 2019.  
[50]  M. Menon and F. Ponta, "Aeroelastic response of wind turbine rotors under rapid actuation of flap -based flow control 
devices," Fluids, vol. 7, pp. 1 -27, 2022 .Available at: https://doi.org/10.3390/fluids7040129.  
[51]  S. Joshi, G. Bharadwaj, R. S. Chauhan, V. K. Sharma, and J. K. Deegwal, "Augmenting stability and total harmonic distortion 
reduction in grid coupled wind power generation system," presented at the  in 2022 International Conference for 
Advancement in Technology (ICONAT), Goa, India, 2022.  
[52]  A. C. -C. Hua and B. C. -H. Cheng, "Design and implementation of power converters for wind energy conversion system," 
presented at the in The 2010 International Power Electronics Conference - ECCE ASIA -, Sapporo, Japan, 2010.  
[53]  K. Rohrig, V. Berkhout, D. Callies, M. Durstewitz, S. Faulstich, B. Hahn, M. Jung, L. Pauscher, A. Seibel, and M. Shan, 
"Powering the 21st century by wind energy —Options, facts, figures ," Applied Physics Reviews, vol. 6, p. 031303, 
2019.Available at: https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5089877.  
[54]  F. Haces -Fernandez, M. Cruz -Mendoza, and H. Li, "Onshore wind farm development: Technologies and layouts," Energies, 
vol. 15, pp. 1 -25, 2022.Available at: https://doi.org/10.3390/en15072381.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
