Citation: Patil, A.; Pathak, C.; Alduse,
B. Review of Natural Hazard Risks
for Wind Farms. Energies 2023 ,16,
1207. https://doi.org/10.3390/
en16031207
Academic Editors: Francesco
Castellani and Davide Astolﬁ
Received: 2 December 2022
Revised: 28 December 2022
Accepted: 10 January 2023
Published: 22 January 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
energies
Review
Review of Natural Hazard Risks for Wind Farms
Atul Patil1
, Chaitanya Pathak2and Bejoy Alduse3,*
1Structures Department, HNTB Corporation, Cherry Hill, NJ 08002, USA
2Transportation Department, HNTB Corporation, Parsippany, NJ 07054, USA
3Structures Department, Stanley D. Lindsey Associates, Brentwood, TN 37027, USA
*Correspondence: balduse@sdlal.com
Abstract: Technological advancement in recent years has resulted in larger and taller wind turbines
(WTs) with enhanced power generation capacities. Application of natural hazard risk quantiﬁcation
for WTs helps stakeholders plan, design, install, and operate wind farms safely and proﬁtably.
This study focuses on a review of the risks to WTs from earthquakes, strong wind, hurricanes,
tsunamis, and lightning. The structural failure of the blades, towers, and foundations in response
to these hazards was investigated. Furthermore, research from the past few decades covering
modes of failures, such as foundation overturning, tower tilting, tower buckling, blade buckling,
deformations, and delamination of blades, was investigated. It was found that the methodologies
used by researchers include analytical, statistical, and data-based models, as well as experimental
research. This study shows that, while seismic, wind, and hurricane risks have been explored with
analytical, experimental, and statistical models in the past, future research could focus on the latest
methods involving data-based models, integration of monitored data, and physics-based models.
Tsunami risk assessment focuses on experimental methods, and future research may beneﬁt from
data-integrated models and a focus on the transient nature of the risks.
Keywords: wind turbine; natural hazard; earthquake; tsunami; hurricane; structural health monitoring;
fragility; vulnerability; limit states
1. Introduction
Wind energy has become a prominent source of clean, renewable energy and an
integral part of the energy portfolio worldwide [ 1]. The global wind power cumulative
capacity has reached 837 GW (Figure 1a) [ 2]. Wind energy accounts for over 20% of total
renewable energy (Figure 1b [ 2]). The global installed wind power capacity in 2020 was
745 GW [ 2], and in the United States of America, it was 135.843 GW [ 3]. There has been an
exponential increase in offshore wind turbine (OWT) installations. The installed worldwide
OWT capacity reached 54.9 GW in 2022 [ 4]. The global OWT market outlook seems positive,
with average annual growth rates of 18.6% until the year 2024 and then 8.2% up to the
end of the 2030. Global offshore wind power is expected to add 20 GW in 2025 and then
another 30 GW in 2030 [ 5]. The global offshore wind capacity increased by 50% in the
year 2021 compared to the year 2020 [ 6]. Major European countries are investing in OWTs
and envision generating 150 GW of power through OWTs by 2030 [ 7]. The World Energy
Outlook Report 2016 estimated that the contribution of wind power could meet 22% of
the worldwide electricity demand, amounting to 9318 TWh, by the year 2050 [ 8]. Wind
energy output is proportional to the square of the wind velocity. With the advancement
of technology, wind turbine heights have increased, making it possible to capture higher
winds at a higher elevation.
Thus, wind turbines have become larger, taller, and slenderer. In modern-day utility
turbines, almost half the weight of the turbine is usually concentrated at the top of the
tower in the form of a nacelle. This geometry and mass distribution, along with the inherent
fundamental frequencies, make these modern-day wind turbines more prone to multiple
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207. https://doi.org/10.3390/en16031207 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 2 of 29
natural hazard risks. Wind turbines are more susceptible to short-duration, high-intensity
loads, such as earthquake loads, high-velocity wind loads, and wave forces in the sea. Taller
structures are also sensitive to lightning risks, both on land and at sea. Many wind turbine
farms are installed in seismically active regions. Although wind turbines may not totally
collapse due to the large return period of large-scale earthquakes, they are subject to many
short-duration, low-intensity earthquakes. These multiple low-intensity earthquakes can
induce irreversible stresses in the body of wind turbine towers. These frequent loads affect
the complex assemblies in the nacelle and increase the maintenance operations, adversely
affecting the constant power generation. Low-scale and low-intensity aftershocks are risks
to the stability of wind turbines. The magnitude 6.4 and 7.1 earthquake that occurred near
Ridgecrest, CA, further highlights the need to include earthquake loads in the site-speciﬁc
analysis and design of wind turbine structures [ 9]. The 1986 North Palm Spring earthquake
damaged a wind turbine due to the buckling of the segmented wind turbine tower [9].
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 2 of 32 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 1. Installed wind power: ( a) cumulative capacity, ( b) wind power as a percentage of total 
renewable energy [2]. 
Thus, wind turbines have become larger, ta ller, and slenderer. In modern-day utility 
turbines, almost half the weight of the turbin e is usually concentrated at the top of the 
tower in the form of a nacelle. This geometry and mass distribution, along with the inher-ent fundamental frequencies, make these modern-day wind turbines more prone to mul-
tiple natural hazard risks. Wind turbines ar e more susceptible to short-duration, high-
intensity loads, such as earthquake loads, high-velocity wind loads, and wave forces in 
the sea. Taller structures are also sensitive to lightning risks, both on land and at sea. Many 
wind turbine farms are installed in seismically active regions. Although wind turbines may not totally collapse due to the large return period of large-scale earthquakes, they are 
subject to many short-duration, low-intensity earthquakes. These multiple low-intensity 
earthquakes can induce irreversible stresses in the body of wind turbine towers. These 
frequent loads affect the complex assemblies in the nacelle and increase the maintenance 
Figure 1. Installed wind power: ( a) cumulative capacity, ( b) wind power as a percentage of total
renewable energy [2].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 3 of 29
There have been instances of wind turbine failures in the past few decades. Wind
turbine failure includes total collapse of wind turbine structure itself and the need for
major repairs, replacement, or maintenance. Owing to human and mechanical errors,
material defects, inherent weak sections, and accidental load induced by typhoons and
windstorms, hundreds of structural collapses have been reported for wind turbines in the
recent past [ 10]. The short-duration, high-velocity winds during hurricanes and typhoons
are another major natural risk for wind turbines. Wind turbine failure can include total
collapse of the wind turbine and failure of the wind turbine blades. Typhoon Maemi [ 11],
which occurred on 11 September 2003, damaged wind turbines on Miyakojima Island in
Japan. The average wind speed was 38.4 m/s (85.89 mph) and the maximum gust was
74.1 m/s (165.75 mph). Elsewhere, a maximum wind speed of 60 m/s (134.21 mph) and
maximum gust of 90 m/s (201.32 mph) were reported [ 11]. Two wind turbines collapsed
due to the buckling of the towers, one turbine failed due to damage to the foundation,
blades were broken, and the nacelle covers of three other turbines were broken. Chou and
Tu [12] performed a failure analysis and risk management study of a wind turbine tower
that collapsed in September 2008 during Typhoon Jangmi in Taiwan. The wind turbine
tower collapsed due to the buckling of the lower two parts as a result of high-velocity
wind loads during the typhoon. Typhoon Usagi made landfall at Shawnie city, China,
on 22 September 2013, damaging a wind farm [ 13,14]. At the wind farm site, the highest
wind speed recorded was 54 m/s (120.79 mph). Researchers [ 13] reported that a 3 s gust
wind with high velocity and rapid change in directionality over a short time resulted in
the collapse of the wind turbines. Li et al. [ 15] researched the wind turbine tower failure
resulting from the landfall of Typhoon Saomai in Zhejiang, China. The typhoon overturned
two turbines and a total of 15 blades were structurally damaged. A wind turbine failed
due to foundation overturning as a result of the hurricane load at Ellenstedt, Germany, in
2002 [ 16]. A wind turbine at Hornslet, Denmark, failed due to uncontrolled blade rotation
speeds, resulting in a blade hitting the wind turbine tower, in February 2008 [ 17]. The
wind turbine at Searsburg, VT, USA, failed in 2008 due to excessive blade deﬂection, with
the blade hitting the wind turbine tower [ 18]. Natural weather conditions combined with
extreme event loads were found to be the signiﬁcant reasons behind wind turbine collapse.
Cold weather, along with high-velocity wind, resulted in the bending of a wind turbine
tower in Wyoming, Arlington, USA, in 2011 [ 19]. The wind turbine failures at Fenner Wind
Farm, Madison County, NY, in 2009 [ 20] and in Fayette County, PA, in 2014 [ 21] are two
more examples of wind turbine failures.
Wind turbines have also been found to fail due to mechanical and structural failures.
Backstrand and Hurtig [ 22] studied a tower failure in 2015 in Lemnhult, Sweden. The
authors reported that the tower failure occurred due to bolt fatigue resulting from an
insufﬁcient pre-tensioning force during construction. The wind turbine tower buckled at
15 m above the ground due to a force imbalance induced by the failure of one of the three
blades [ 23]. A rapid change in the wind direction and lack of synchronization between yaw
adjustments resulted in increased crosswind load and torsional vibration, which led to wind
turbine failure [ 15]. Erroneous operations lead to misalignment of the yaw mechanism,
resulting in a malfunction in the blades’ movement during pitch adjustment. Increased
loads resulting from the locking of blades at an unfavorable pitch position for the cut-off
wind speed was found to be the reason behind a few wind turbine failures during Typhoon
Maemi [ 11]. Researchers [ 24] have investigated the design of an adaptive neuro-fuzzy
inference system (ANFIS) as a control technique for the blade pitch control signal. A delay
in the control signal transmission can cause an increased load demand in response to rapid
wind speeds and directionality ﬂuctuations. Another study [ 24] discussed the effectiveness
and the performance of a proposed controller. Mechanical, electrical, and control system
failures also pose threats to wind turbines during operating and idling processes.
With the advancement of technology, although the generation of wind energy has
increased, instances of turbine failure have also increased. Figure 2 shows the number of
wind turbine accidents per year between 1996 and 2017. As per the report by the CWIF [ 25],
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 4 of 29
the average number of accidents per year was 23 between 1997 and 2001, 70 between
2002 and 2006, 135 between 2007 and 2011, and 164 between 2012 and 2017 [ 25]. The data
indicate that 375 blade failures accounted for 17.9% of the total number of wind turbine
failures, 312 ﬁre events accounted for 14.5%, and 194 structural failures accounted for 9.2%.
The various reasons for these failures included lightning strikes, concrete damage, storms
and typhoons, blades being struck, faulty welding and failure of connections, braking
failures, cracking, and fatigue. The failure of a wind turbine due to the overturning of the
foundation because of inadequate ground improvement has been recorded (Figure 3a) [ 26].
The wind turbines on Miyakojima Island were damaged and failed during Typhoon Maemi
in 2003 [ 27]. Figure 3b [ 28] shows the wind turbine that collapsed during Typhoon Maemi.
The wind turbine at Gilfach Goch, near Bridgend, south Wales, UK, collapsed due to
a storm in 2022 [ 29]. The characteristics of earthquake loads, high-velocity wind loads,
and wave loads differ from each other. The concentration of heavy mass at the top of
towers in conjunction with their slender structure makes them ideal for failure. Thus, it is
essential to analyze wind turbine structures in terms of these diverse types of loads and
their combinations.
Given the exponential growth in the share of wind energy in total global energy
production, it is necessary to make the wind energy system a more efﬁcient and sustainable
solution in terms of resources, such as time and ﬁnancial cost. The cost of wind turbines
ranges between USD 1.3 million and 2.2 million per megawatt. The cost of modern-day
utility-scale wind turbines, which are usually 2 to 3 MW, ranges between USD 3 and
4 million [ 30,31]. Wind turbines are subject to numerous hazard risks, such as earthquakes,
high-velocity winds during typhoons and hurricanes, ﬁre, lightning, and mechanical and
other operational issues during exceptional weather conditions. Any partial or complete
failure in or interruption of power generation will result in huge ﬁnancial losses for the
wind energy operators and owners. Therefore, it is necessary to analyze and quantify
the risk resulting from natural hazards to design and develop an economical, safe, and
resilient wind energy infrastructure. Careful planning, site-speciﬁc analysis, design, and
development of wind farms are necessary to ensure efﬁciency and a proﬁtable service
life for wind turbines. Seismic, hurricane, and lightning risk research primarily relies on
mathematical models. Experimental research has been undertaken for tsunami risk. It
can be observed that earthquake and wind risk research incorporate historical data on
hazards to capture event frequency and intensity. Structural behavior is primarily replicated
through ﬁnite element modeling. Owing to the lateral nature of seismic and wind loads, the
responses of WTs to both these loads are similar to a certain extent: failure of the tower and
failure of the foundation. Blades are usually designed for higher wind forces and failure of
the tower can even occur before blade failure.
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 5 of 32 
 
  
Figure 2. Wind turbine accidents between 1996 and 2017 [25]. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 3. Wind turbine failures: ( a) overturning of foundation of wind turbine tower [26]; ( b) dam-
aged wind turbine tower on Miyakojima Island during Typhoon Maemi on 11 September 2003 [28]. 
2. Materials and Methods 
Figure 2. Wind turbine accidents between 1996 and 2017 [25].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 5 of 29
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 5 of 32 
 
  
Figure 2. Wind turbine accidents between 1996 and 2017 [25]. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 3. Wind turbine failures: ( a) overturning of foundation of wind turbine tower [26]; ( b) dam-
aged wind turbine tower on Miyakojima Island during Typhoon Maemi on 11 September 2003 [28]. 
2. Materials and Methods 
Figure 3. Wind turbine failures: ( a) overturning of foundation of wind turbine tower [ 26]; (b) dam-
aged wind turbine tower on Miyakojima Island during Typhoon Maemi on 11 September 2003 [28].
2. Materials and Methods
This study reviewed 154 publications that included risk assessments of wind tur-
bine towers subject to natural hazards, structural models (stability under lateral loads
and responses of wind turbine towers and large engineering structures), reports from
governmental agencies, and mathematical models relevant to hazard risk. Many articles
directly related to wind turbines were published between the years 2000 and 2022. The
main geographical regions covered in the reviewed articles were North America, Europe,
and Asia. While the structures of wind turbines comprise several components, this study
focused on wind turbine towers, blades, and foundations they are critical for the structural
performance and function of wind turbine towers. Figure 4 provides statistical summaries
of the articles that were reviewed in this study. They pertain to the various hazards, the
methods used for research, and the approaches employed in these articles, which were
published from 1995 to 2022. More than 20% of all the articles reviewed were published
between 2019 and 2022.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 6 of 29
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 7 of 32 
 
  
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
Figure 4. Wind turbine research statistics: ( a) percentage of articles vs. area of research; ( b) year vs.
percentage of articles; ( c) number of articles vs. research methodology; ( d) percentages of articles for
each component type.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 7 of 29
This study reviewed the risks to wind turbines from major hazards: earthquakes,
strong in-land wind, hurricanes, and tsunamis. Hence, these hazards were the main
category types in this study. The subcategories used in this study focused on the main
vulnerable components: the wind turbine foundations, tower, and blades. Furthermore,
the different failure modes of each of these components in response to these hazards
were covered.
From a mechanics perspective, in-land earthquake loads affect the stability of founda-
tions and generate large stresses in the tower. Tsunami risks are associated with foundations
since the tsunami forces—waves and pulses in the seabed—are directly transferred to the
foundations. Hence, a strong correlation can be observed between tsunami research and
foundations. Hurricane wind forces and surge waves primarily apply loads to the tower.
In the next section, the results from a detailed examination of each article are presented.
These include, for each risk type, which components are affected, the nature of the damage,
the prediction methodology utilized, and the ﬁndings. This is followed by a conclusion
section, where each risk is categorized, and potential future work is identiﬁed.
3. Results
3.1. Risks from Earthquakes for Onshore Wind Turbines
While wind farms are becoming more favored, they are challenged by seismic activities,
especially when they are in seismic hazard areas. For instance, the 1986 North Palm Springs
earthquake and 1992 Northridge earthquake occurred near utility-scale wind turbines [ 32].
As there is limited research and a lack of speciﬁcations for the design of wind turbines,
traditional building codes are used, and then seismic analysis is superimposed with the
operational turbine load [ 33]. Wind turbines are costly structures and have considerable
subsequent maintenance costs; thus, their performance and failure due to such seismic
activities need to be quantiﬁed and evaluated. Seismic activities and intensities vary
geographically, with some areas exhibiting high-intensity seismic loads; therefore, wind
turbines need location-speciﬁc designs. The site-speciﬁc seismic analysis conducted by
Agbayani [ 34] used seismic loading based on the Uniform Building Code [ 35]. Typical
standards developed by professional organizations and manufacturers focus on overall
safety and performance analyses, such as response spectrum analysis and time history
analysis [ 36,37]. Building codes used for the design of wind turbines vary, but they have
the objective of minimizing interrupted operations resulting from mechanical components.
To ensure normal operations, turbines should satisfy serviceability limit states (SLS) [ 38],
such as for the tilt at the tower top. Another aspect speciﬁc to wind turbines is that they
have a longer natural period compared to other buildings of the same height. For instance,
the mass at the tower top (blades and nacelle) may be larger than the mass of the tower,
resulting in a long natural period. Given the differences in the structural characteristics
of wind turbine towers and buildings, evaluation of the structural performance of wind
turbines is important. The seismic loads can be broadly characterized as near-fault and
far-fault loads. The responses of slender structures, such as wind turbine towers, can be
expected to differ for near-fault and far-fault seismic activities. The responses of structures
to the same loading characteristics have been found to differ based on the characteristics of
the structure. Anderson and Bertero [ 39] studied uncertainties in establishing designs for
earthquakes. The authors suggested that the character of a structure has a signiﬁcant impact
on the response characteristics. Near-fault earthquakes, which are characterized by long-
duration velocity pulses, result in signiﬁcantly different responses compared to far-fault
earthquakes in the same structure [ 40]. Hall et al. [ 41] studied the behavior of buildings
in response to simulated high-intensity earthquakes, and Attalla et al. [ 42] researched the
responses of buildings during the 1994 Northridge earthquake to near-fault loads and
their directions. The analysis of the response records conﬁrmed that the directionality
and high pulse loads resulted in permanent displacements in the buildings. Studies on
the drift spectrum have been carried out to measure the demand for earthquake ground
motions [ 43]. Chopra and Chintanapakdee [ 44] compared the responses of a single-degree-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 8 of 29
of-freedom system to near-fault and far-fault earthquake motions. Hatzigeorgiou [ 45]
performed research on ductility demand spectra for a single-degree-of-freedom system
under near-fault and far-fault seismic loads. Kalkan [ 46] studied the near-fault forward
directivity loading effect on buildings, while Alavi and Krawinkler [ 47] studied the behavior
of moment-resisting frame structures subjected to near-fault earthquake loads. Studies
have been performed to quantify the impact of [ 48] and characterize [ 49] near-fault ground
motions. The relation between the near-fault rupture directivity pulse and earthquake
magnitude [ 50] has been studied and a preliminary model for the acceleration response
spectra of near-fault fault-normal ground motion was presented. The research performed
by these authors suggests that the critical analysis of loads and their characteristics is
essential to evaluate the response and structural performance of structures built in seismic
regions. As wind turbines are critical elements of the energy infrastructure, it is necessary
to perform an in-depth analysis of the nature and characteristics of seismic activities.
Multiple researchers have proposed and employed various methods to evaluate struc-
tures and their performance when subjected to seismic loads. The methods include full-scale
model simulation using ﬁnite element analysis; experimental methods, such as shake table
tests; and mathematical modeling using a probability-based approach. Fragility analysis
examines the probability of a system exceeding certain limit states, depending on the
constraints on the limit states, under the application of loads such that the system ceases
to perform its intended purpose or is deemed to be unﬁt for the intended purpose. Many
computational methods are available to address nonlinear systems, but fragility analysis is
more reliable when the load, response, and capacities are uncertain and random. The ana-
lytical method [ 51] and analytical fragility function ﬁtting [ 52] have been used to evaluate
structural performance. Fragility curves have been used to evaluate vulnerability and risk
of collapse [ 53,54]. Damage to moment connections and fragility assessment of building
structural system [ 55,56] has been studied using fragility curves. Various studies evalu-
ating structural performance have used fragility methods. Fragility methods were used
to evaluate the response of a light-frame wood construction exposed to strong wind and
earthquakes [ 57]. Nielson and DesRoches [ 58] used a fragility methodology for highway
bridges with a component-level approach. Sousa et al. [ 59] used fragility methods for loss
estimation in relation to earthquakes. Kafali and Grigoriu [ 60] performed seismic fragility
analysis to estimate system fragility as a function of moment magnitude and source-to-site
distance, which was referred to as the fragility surface. The fragility functions are usually
determined by using the peak ground acceleration (PGA) or spectral acceleration. Nuta
et al. [ 61] used fragility methods to study and evaluate the seismic risk for tubular steel
wind turbine towers. Seismic response was studied and evaluated by Prowell et al. by
conducting a full-scale shake table test [ 62]. Bazeos et al. [ 63] used simpliﬁed and ﬁnite
element models to study and analyze the behavior of wind turbines and performed a
comparative assessment of the results obtained for static, seismic, and site-speciﬁc loads
and operational and survival aerodynamic conditions.
Patil et al. [ 64] used probability-based fragility methods to evaluate the structural
performance of parked wind turbines subjected to seismic loads. The authors considered
15 near faults and 17 far faults with seismic loads scaled 2.5 times to evaluate the structural
performance of an 80 m tall wind turbine tower. The highest probability of failure was
found for the foundation-overturning mode, followed by yielding, permanent deformation,
and buckling (Figure 5) [ 64]. Prowell et al. [ 65] analyzed the National Renewable Energy
Laboratory (NREL) 5 MW reference wind turbine in terms of the moment demand, con-
sidering the mean load, the mean load plus one standard deviation, and the maximum
load. The authors of another study [66] found that the mean tower base moment demand
was in the range of the ultimate wind loading. Similar results were obtained for the mean
plus one standard deviation simulation. For operational cases (Figure 6b, c), the moments
at the tower base were found to have a wide range compared to the idling case shown in
Figure 6a [65].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 9 of 29
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 10 of 32 
 
 load. The authors of another study [66] found that the mean tower base moment demand 
was in the range of the ultimate wind loading. Similar results were obtained for the mean 
plus one standard deviation simulation. For operational cases (Figure 6b, c), the moments 
at the tower base were found to have a wide  range compared to the idling case shown in 
Figure 6a [65].  
 
(a) Near-fault fragility function  
 
(b) Far-fault fragility function  
Figure 5. Fragility functions for 80 m tall wind turbine: ( a) near fault; ( b) far fault [64]. 
  
Figure 5. Fragility functions for 80 m tall wind turbine: ( a) near fault; ( b) far fault [64].
Lavassas et al. [ 66] analyzed wind turbine towers in seismic areas and performed
eigenvalue analysis with response spectrum analysis as per the Eurocode 8 speciﬁcations.
The analysis indicated higher values for the von Misses stress in the region near the
door opening at the bottom of the tower. Although higher stresses were recorded due to
wind loading, the authors [ 66] suggested the importance of seismic analysis for structural
design. Seismic loads involve a wide range of frequencies, which may induce higher-
mode vibrations in wind turbine structures. Ishihara and Sarwar [ 67], using time-domain
analysis and a semi-theoretical approach based on the seismic load acting on buildings,
investigated wind turbines in terms of the contributions of higher modes of vibration
due to seismic loads. The authors [ 67] found that a modiﬁcation response spectrum
was required to account for the large response of low-damping structures, such as wind
turbines. The authors also proposed a formula to estimate the maximum value of moments.
Systematic modeling of the effects of wind turbine dynamics and earthquake loads on
wind turbine structures compared to normal operating conditions [ 68] indicated that the
contribution from higher modes in wind turbine response is important in the analysis and
design of tower structures. Prowell et al. [ 69] performed a full-scale shake table test on a
65-kW wind turbine and a computation simulation. The authors suggested the possible
participation of higher modes due to high-frequency seismic load. Other research [ 69] also
suggested investigating and checking the conservativeness of bi-directional loading. Zhao
and Maisser [ 70] researched the seismic response analysis of wind turbine tower structures
considering soil–structure interactions.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 10 of 29
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 11 of 32 
 
  
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 6. Tower moment demand: ( a) idling situation; ( b) operating situation; ( c) emergency shut-
down situation [65].  
Figure 6. Tower moment demand: ( a) idling situation; ( b) operating situation; ( c) emergency shut-
down situation [65].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 11 of 29
Owing to the large return period and scarcity of high-magnitude seismic events, wind
turbine failures are rare; however, they are expected to fail. Even if total collapse of the
wind turbine does not occur, partial failure of one turbine can disrupt the normal operation
of a whole wind farm for a considerable time. Interrupted power generation and turbine
failure result in huge ﬁnancial losses for wind energy developers, operators, owners, and
insurance companies; thus, performance evaluation, vulnerability assessment, and risk
evaluation are required for wind turbine structures. Research on and analysis of wind
turbines subjected to seismic loads, probability-based analysis, simulation-based testing,
design procedures, and continued upgrading of the standards and speciﬁcations that could
be used in structural performance evaluation play important roles in the advancement of
wind energy technology.
3.2. Risk from Strong Wind for Onshore Wind Turbines
Codes and speciﬁcations include recommendations for high-wind-speed designs.
Different parts of the International Electrochemical Commission (IEC) cover guidelines and
standardization of different aspects of wind turbines, such as general design requirements
(IEC61400-1:2005 + AMD1:2010) and design requirements for OWTs (IEC61400-3:2009).
Despite adherence to these guidelines and certiﬁcations, there are many instances of wind
turbine failures due to high-velocity wind events, such as hurricanes. A wind turbine
tower collapsed after bending near the bottom section due to high-velocity wind [ 19].
Excessive wind turbine blade deﬂection due to high-velocity wind resulted in a blade
hitting the tower of a wind turbine at Searsburg, VT, in 2008 [ 18]. High-velocity wind
resulted in uncontrolled oscillations in a wind turbine, and the blade sheared the tower
and the upper part of the tower collapsed [ 17]. Wind turbine towers at Fenner Wind Farm
in Madison County, NY, in 2009 [ 20] and in Fayette County, PA, in 2014 [ 21] collapsed due
to high-velocity winds.
In the past few decades, researchers have studied and analyzed wind turbines for their
reliability and performance by using probability-based statistical methods. Displacement-
based fragility analysis was performed by Quilligan et al. [ 71] to investigate steel and
concrete towers. A method to estimate the force acting on the blades, nacelle, hub, and
tower of a wind turbine due to severe storms was proposed by Kawai et al. [ 72]. A method
for numerical estimation and analytical calculation using a ﬁnite element approach was
employed to establish the buckling load due to high-velocity wind by Lee and Bang [ 73].
A simulation using ﬁnite element modeling and analysis was employed by Chein and
Jang [ 74] and showed that, due to vortex-shedding frequency resonance at low wind speeds,
the across-wind response of wind turbine towers is greater than the along-wind speed
response. A full-scale test and full dynamics simulation based on the FEM code have been
used [ 27] to estimate natural frequencies and wind loads and analyze the collapse of wind
turbines during Typhoon Maemi.
Rose et al. [ 75] used empirical equations to analyze the thin-walled cylinders that
would be best suited for ideal structures. Wind turbines are not ideal structures and
have varying degrees of stiffness, geometries, and mass distributions. The door and
cable opening at the bottom of a turbine were found to affect the response [ 61]. Wind
direction and intensity are not constant and are ever changing. This transient aspect
of load results in transient uncertainty in the response parameters of slender structures,
such as wind turbines. Fragility analysis is the most suitable method to address such
uncertainties. Fragility analysis has been used to investigate wood constructions [ 76],
the long-term design loads on wind turbines [ 77], and, in a publication by the Applied
Technical Council, bridge fragility [ 78]. Fragility curves have also been developed using
analytical methods by various researchers. The elastic spectra method [ 79], the nonlinear
static method [ 80,81], the nonlinear dynamic method [ 82,83], and Hwang and Huo’s
hazard curves [ 51] are the analytical methods that have been developed for fragility curves.
Component fragilities were used to estimate system fragility for highway bridges [ 58].
Empirical methods were used to develop failure curves for structures [ 84]. To evaluate
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 12 of 29
bridge damage [ 85] and uncertainties in response, another study analyzed the performance
of structures using the fragility approach. The performance of steel moment frames was
evaluated based on a nonlinear analysis by Yun et al. [ 86], who proposed a method to
estimate the conﬁdence level for a given hazard. Jeong and Elnashai [ 87] derived a set of
fragility relationships with known reliability based on the fundamental response quantities
of stiffness, strength, and ductility and then constructed various fragility limit states without
performing further simulations.
A 1.65 MW 80 m tall wind turbine was analyzed by subjecting it to wind ﬁelds with
mean wind speeds of 25 m/s, 30 m/s 40 m/s, 50 m/s, 60 m/s, and 70 m/s [ 64]. Based on
seismic fragility analysis, demand can be expressed as a function of spectral acceleration as
in Equation (1) [ 88]. For wind, spectral acceleration can be replaced with mean wind velocity
V , and demand can be expressed as in Equation (2) [ 64]. The parameters a and b being
regression parameters, the exceedance probability of the demand D is given by Equation
(3) [64] and the capacity is given by Equation (4) [ 88]. By combining Equations (3) and (4) ,
the probability of failure can be expressed as in Equation (5) [ 89]. One study [ 64] modeled
a 1.65 MW turbine using the numerical model in the Fatigue, Aerodynamic, Structures,
Turbines (FAST) tool [ 90]. Wind ﬁelds have been generated using TURBSIM [ 91]. The wind
loads were applied in two directions, forming angles of 0 degrees and 30 degrees with
the rotor axis. The study by Kim and Manuel [ 92] found that 30-degree wind-direction
speed is the most critical, resulting in maximum deformation. The ultimate capacity of
a wind turbine has been determined using pushover analysis [ 93]. The material model
used in this study was based on the work by Matic [ 94] and Voth [ 95]. The velocity vs.
median demand for the 30-degree wind direction obtained in another study is shown in
Figure 7 [ 64]. The fragility analysis in this study used three limit states: global buckling,
yielding, and foundation overturning. The highest probability of failure was found for
foundation overturning, followed by yielding and buckling (Figure 8) [ 64]. The case study
was performed by considering a 15 m wide foundation. When the foundation width
was increased from 15 to 16.56 m, the probability of failure decreased, with signiﬁcantly
enhanced foundation-overturning resistance (Figure 9) [ 64]. The SAC-FEMA approach,
which is extensively used in earthquake analysis, was employed for high-velocity wind
fragility analysis to study the nonlinear velocity vs. demand relationship.
ˆD=a(Sa)b(1)
ˆD=a(V)b(2)
P[DdjV=x] =1 F0
@ln
d
axb
bDjV1
A (3)
P[Cd]=F0
@ln
d
ˆC
bC1
A (4)
P[C<DjV=x] =F0
@lnˆD
ˆC
q
b2
DjV+b2
C1
A (5)
where:
ˆD= median demand;
ˆC= median capacity;
d= speciﬁc demand;
x= speciﬁc demand;
a,b= regression parameters;
Sa= spectral acceleration;
V= mean wind velocity;
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 13 of 29
bDjV= parameter to measure dispersion for demand;
bc= parameter to measure dispersion for capacity;
d= speciﬁc demand;
ln= natural logarithm;
F= standard normal probability integral.
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 14 of 32 
 
 𝐷෡=𝑎 ( 𝑉 )௕ (2)
𝑃[𝐷 ≥ 𝑑 | 𝑉 = 𝑥] = 1 − 𝛷 ቌ𝑙𝑛 ቀ𝑑
𝑎𝑥௕ቁ
𝛽஽| ௏ቍ (3)
𝑃[𝐶 ≤ 𝑑] = 𝛷 ൮𝑙𝑛 ቀ𝑑
𝐶መቁ
𝛽஼൲ (4)
𝑃[𝐶 < 𝐷 |𝑉=𝑥 ]=𝛷
⎝⎛𝑙𝑛 ൬𝐷෡
𝐶መ൰
ට𝛽஽|௏ଶ+𝛽஼ଶ
⎠⎞ (5)
where: 
𝐷෡ = median demand; 
𝐶መ = median capacity; 
𝑑 = specific demand; 
𝑥 = specific demand; 
𝑎, 𝑏 = regression parameters; 
𝑆௔ = spectral acceleration; 
𝑉 = mean wind velocity; 
𝛽஽|௏ = parameter to measure dispersion for demand; 
𝛽௖ = parameter to measure dispersion for capacity; 
𝑑 = specific demand; 
𝑙𝑛 = natural logarithm; 
𝛷 = standard normal probability integral. 
 
Figure 7. Velocity vs. median demand (30-degree wind direction) [64]. 00.511.522.533.5
0 1 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 0Demand (m)
Velocity (m/s)Dˆ) ,ˆ( VDDLN β
bVaD )( ˆ=Cˆ
Figure 7. Velocity vs. median demand (30-degree wind direction) [64].
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 15 of 32 
 
  
Figure 8. Probability of failure (30-degree wind-direction loading) [64]. 
 
Figure 9. Comparison of exceedance probabilities fo r original and improved foundations [64]. 
Wind turbine blades are another component susceptible to failure due to high-veloc-
ity wind and represent the most common location for failure [98]. Damage to wind turbine 
blades may be due to various reasons, such as lightning, fatigue loads, and accumulation of ice [99]. Wind turbine blades account for ar ound 15–20% of the total cost and are one of 
the most expensive components to repair, resulting in considerable downtime for operat-
ing wind turbines [100]. Owing to prolonged and continuous use and the cyclic nature of 
loads, composite-material blades can fail due to delamination [101,102]. Full-scale testing 
of a wind turbine blade was performed by Jorgensen et al. [103] using a 25 m long blade subjected to flapwise load. The authors studied the mechanism by which wind turbine 
blades fail when the flapwise load exceeds the capacity; mainly, the failure on the com-
pression side of the blade. Five wind turbines  located in Changhua Coastal Industrial Park 
in Taichung failed during Typhoon Jangmi [104]. A study analyzed the failure of the 
blades due to sustained high-velocity wind, which resulted in surface delamination and 
cracking of blades. The authors [104] analyz ed the failure mechanism for the blades and 
investigated the contributing factors leading to blade failure. Chen and Xu [13] studied 
the structural integrity and failure mechanism of wind turbines damaged by a typhoon in Usagi. The authors showed the effects of hi gh-velocity wind and changes in wind direc-
tion on the tower and blade. The structural performance and behavior of the wind turbine 
tower and blade were quantitatively investigated  to identify the root cause of the failure. 00.20.40.60.81
0 1 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 0Exceedance probability
Wind speed (m/s)BucklingYielding Foundation overturning
Figure 8. Probability of failure (30-degree wind-direction loading) [64].
Wind turbine blades are another component susceptible to failure due to high-velocity
wind and represent the most common location for failure [ 96]. Damage to wind turbine
blades may be due to various reasons, such as lightning, fatigue loads, and accumulation
of ice [ 97]. Wind turbine blades account for around 15–20% of the total cost and are one of
the most expensive components to repair, resulting in considerable downtime for operating
wind turbines [ 98]. Owing to prolonged and continuous use and the cyclic nature of loads,
composite-material blades can fail due to delamination [ 99,100]. Full-scale testing of a wind
turbine blade was performed by Jorgensen et al. [ 101] using a 25 m long blade subjected
to ﬂapwise load. The authors studied the mechanism by which wind turbine blades fail
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 14 of 29
when the ﬂapwise load exceeds the capacity; mainly, the failure on the compression side
of the blade. Five wind turbines located in Changhua Coastal Industrial Park in Taichung
failed during Typhoon Jangmi [ 102]. A study analyzed the failure of the blades due to
sustained high-velocity wind, which resulted in surface delamination and cracking of
blades. The authors [ 102] analyzed the failure mechanism for the blades and investigated
the contributing factors leading to blade failure. Chen and Xu [ 13] studied the structural
integrity and failure mechanism of wind turbines damaged by a typhoon in Usagi. The
authors showed the effects of high-velocity wind and changes in wind direction on the
tower and blade. The structural performance and behavior of the wind turbine tower and
blade were quantitatively investigated to identify the root cause of the failure. The Usagi
Typhoon recorded a sustained wind speed of 138 mph (61.69 m/s) [ 14]. According to the
Safﬁr Simpson scale, the Usagi Typhoon was a category four typhoon.
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 15 of 32 
 
  
Figure 8. Probability of failure (30-degree wind-direction loading) [64]. 
 
Figure 9. Comparison of exceedance probabilities fo r original and improved foundations [64]. 
Wind turbine blades are another component susceptible to failure due to high-veloc-
ity wind and represent the most common location for failure [98]. Damage to wind turbine 
blades may be due to various reasons, such as lightning, fatigue loads, and accumulation of ice [99]. Wind turbine blades account for ar ound 15–20% of the total cost and are one of 
the most expensive components to repair, resulting in considerable downtime for operat-
ing wind turbines [100]. Owing to prolonged and continuous use and the cyclic nature of 
loads, composite-material blades can fail due to delamination [101,102]. Full-scale testing 
of a wind turbine blade was performed by Jorgensen et al. [103] using a 25 m long blade subjected to flapwise load. The authors studied the mechanism by which wind turbine 
blades fail when the flapwise load exceeds the capacity; mainly, the failure on the com-
pression side of the blade. Five wind turbines  located in Changhua Coastal Industrial Park 
in Taichung failed during Typhoon Jangmi [104]. A study analyzed the failure of the 
blades due to sustained high-velocity wind, which resulted in surface delamination and 
cracking of blades. The authors [104] analyz ed the failure mechanism for the blades and 
investigated the contributing factors leading to blade failure. Chen and Xu [13] studied 
the structural integrity and failure mechanism of wind turbines damaged by a typhoon in Usagi. The authors showed the effects of hi gh-velocity wind and changes in wind direc-
tion on the tower and blade. The structural performance and behavior of the wind turbine 
tower and blade were quantitatively investigated  to identify the root cause of the failure. 00.20.40.60.81
0 1 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 0Exceedance probability
Wind speed (m/s)BucklingYielding Foundation overturning
Figure 9. Comparison of exceedance probabilities for original and improved foundations [64].
The wind direction has also been found to change to a great extent. Strong wind and
large shifts in the direction of the wind caused the failure of wind turbine blades. The
authors of one study [ 13] used the maximum compressive strain as the failure criteria. Two
stop positions for the wind turbine were considered. For position 1, the wind from the
north-north-east (NNE) had a wind speed of 59.8 m/s, and for position 2, the wind from
the southeast had a wind speed of 71.5 m/s. The peak stress and strain levels were found
to occur at the normalized length of 0.32. The directionality of the wind was found to have
a signiﬁcant impact on the structural performance of the wind turbine. The wind with
a speed of 59.8 m/s approaching from the NNE did not cause the strain in the blade to
exceed the threshold limit and the blade survived the wind-induced loads, but the turbine
tower collapsed in the SSW direction. For the second stop position, where the wind was
approaching from the SE with a speed of 71.5 m/s, the strain level was higher than the
failure strain limit, leading to blade failure, but the wind turbine tower survived the wind
speed. This study indicates that the stop position needs to be evaluated and veriﬁed in the
turbine design process. The study also indicates that all the blades need to be feathered to
avoid the failure of wind turbine structures. The authors [ 13] presented the location-wise
stress and strain relations for the two stop positions of the wind turbines, as reproduced
in Figure 10.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 15 of 29
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 16 of 32 
 
 The Usagi Typhoon recorded a sustained wind speed of 138 mph (61.69 m/s) [14]. Accord-
ing to the Saffir Simpson scale, the Usagi Typhoon was a category four typhoon.  
The wind direction has also been found to change to a great extent. Strong wind and 
large shifts in the direction of the wind ca used the failure of wind turbine blades. The 
authors of one study [13] used the maximum compressive strain as the failure criteria. 
Two stop positions for the wind turbine were considered. For position 1, the wind from 
the north-north-east (NNE) had a wind speed of 59.8 m/s, and for position 2, the wind 
from the southeast had a wind speed of 71.5 m/s. The peak stress and strain levels were 
found to occur at the normalized length of 0. 32. The directionality of the wind was found 
to have a significant impact on the structural  performance of the wind turbine. The wind 
with a speed of 59.8 m/s approaching from the NNE did not cause the strain in the blade 
to exceed the threshold limit and the blade su rvived the wind-induced loads, but the tur-
bine tower collapsed in the SSW direction. Fo r the second stop position, where the wind 
was approaching from the SE with a speed of 71.5 m/s, the strain level was higher than 
the failure strain limit, leading to blade fail ure, but the wind turbine tower survived the 
wind speed. This study indicates that the stop position needs to be evaluated and verified 
in the turbine design process. The study also in dicates that all the blades need to be feath-
ered to avoid the failure of wind turbine st ructures. The authors [13] presented the loca-
tion-wise stress and strain relations for the tw o stop positions of the wind turbines, as 
reproduced in Figure 10. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 10. Lengthwise tower stress and blade strain for ( a) wind stop position 1 with wind speed of
59.8 m/s and ( b) wind stop position 2 with speed of 71.5 m/s [13].
3.3. Risk from Hurricanes for Offshore Wind Farms (OWFs)
Offshore wind farms are exposed to risks from hurricane wind and waves. Researchers
have used catastrophic modeling methods, Monte Carlo simulation, the log-logistic func-
tion, and the Weibull distribution for extreme windstorms to evaluate the ﬁnancial risk for
insurers and owners of offshore wind farms (OWFs) [ 75,103]. The risk for a single OWT
from hurricane forces was researched by Hallowell et al. in 2018 [ 103] using structural
models and the synthetic database. The researchers also performed a fragility analysis of
the tower and monopile and noted failure probabilities between 7.310 10and 3.410 4
for the functional yaw control system and 1.510 10and 1.610 7for the non-functional
yaw control system [ 103]. Hallowell et al. (2018) [ 104] also evaluated the reliability of using
multiline anchors in wind farms, in which the distribution of demand was developed using
a 500-year storm, resulting in progressive failure of system reliability. Wind accelerations
were studied by Duenas-Osorio and Basu [ 105] to evaluate the impact on wind turbines.
The study suggested that, even if wind turbines do not collapse, frequent accelerations
due to high winds pose a potential risk for mechanical and electrical components. Flexural
bending of wind turbines due to local buckling was found to result in the need for minor
repairs, with 26% of failures being related to pitch and 30% being major failures caused by
hydraulic system failures [106,107].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 16 of 29
Figure 11a shows fragility curves for the yaw and no-yaw conditions [ 75] and Figure 11b
shows the probability of hurricane occurrence in major US coastal states [ 108,109]. The fragility
of wind turbines under yaw and no-yaw conditions is given by the equation below using a
logistic function:
D(w) =(w/a)b
1+ (w/a)b
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 18 of 32 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 11.  (a) Fragility curves for yaw and no-yaw conditions [77]; ( b) probability of hurricane oc-
currence in major US coastal states—mod eled and historical data [110,111]. 
Risk evaluation was performed by Rose et al. (2012) [77] to quantify hurricane risk 
for OWTs in the Atlantic and Gulf coastal waters of the United States. The study reported that the maximum speed during hurricanes is greater than the design limits, resulting in 
buckling failures. It was noted that over 90% of the wind turbines buckled in response to 
hurricanes of categories 3, 4, and 5. Rose et al. [77] also highlighted that the uncertainty 
Figure 11. (a) Fragility curves for yaw and no-yaw conditions [ 75]; (b) probability of hurricane
occurrence in major US coastal states—modeled and historical data [108,109].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 17 of 29
The probability for the wind speed can be modeled using a generalized extreme value
(GEV) distribution.
fW(w) =1
sexp( (1+xw m
s) 1
x)(1+xw m
s) 1 1
x
where:
D(w)= failure probability at wind speed w;
w= sustained wind speed at hub height (knots);
a= scale parameter of the log-logistic function;
b= shape parameter of the log-logistic function;
s= scale parameter of the GEV distribution for wind speed;
x= shape parameter of the GEV distribution for wind speed;
m= location parameter of the GEV distribution for wind speed.
Risk evaluation was performed by Rose et al. (2012) [ 75] to quantify hurricane risk
for OWTs in the Atlantic and Gulf coastal waters of the United States. The study reported
that the maximum speed during hurricanes is greater than the design limits, resulting in
buckling failures. It was noted that over 90% of the wind turbines buckled in response to
hurricanes of categories 3, 4, and 5. Rose et al. [ 75] also highlighted that the uncertainty
regarding the wind direction during hurricanes and wind turbines’ inability to yaw to
the correct direction result in failures. For the integrated approach to risk analysis for
OWTs, Staid and Guikema (2012) [ 110] underlined the importance of the risks faced by
OWTs, including maintenance and operation costs. To estimate the potential damage
to an OWT farm, Manuel and Kim (2012) [ 107] used synthetic hurricane tracks, wind
ﬁeld models, and speed exceedance probabilities. Wilkie and Galasso (2020) [ 111] also
worked with a probabilistic framework; however, they relied on site-speciﬁc fragility
relationships, a reliability approach, and a coherent treatment of epistemic uncertainties.
To determine the optimal placement of wind turbines considering the wake effect, Yin et al.
(2017) [ 112] developed a simulation optimization-based risk management (SORM) model
using probability density functions with the help of Monte Carlo simulation. To study
subassembly failure in OWTs, Carroll et al. [ 113,114] investigated various types of repairs,
including major replacements, minor repairs, and major repairs. They also investigated
costs and work hours for the same, in addition to looking at bathtub failure curves. The
reliability data observed for typical electrical components were not seen at the system
level for the wind turbine unit, and it is likely that major components do not exhibit
bathtub failure curves. To study the inﬂuence of weather on the reliability of modern
wind turbines—in particular, the effect of wind speed—Tavner et al. [ 115] investigated
how speed affects reliability and which subassemblies in the turbine are affected most.
The effect of wind turbine wakes, and the distribution of the interference and vortex were
studied by Sorensen and Shen [ 116] using numerical modeling. Chou [ 117] investigated
the cause of the failures in towers in Taiwan during a typhoon. A potential cause of the
failures was identiﬁed in the bolt connections, and the study recommended well-planned
inspection intervals to mitigate the risk. Agarwal and Manuel [ 77] modeled the extreme
loads on a wind turbine from hurricane winds and waves. The hurricane track, wave,
and wind intensity were modeled based on historical data and a physics-based model.
Loads on the turbine tower were then used to determine the failure probabilities. Amirinia
and Jung [ 118] studied the buffeting response of OWTs using time-domain formulations.
Buffeting is a wind–structure interaction phenomenon and can be used to predict the failure
of turbine towers and fatigue damage. Kim and Manuel [ 92] modeled hurricane-induced
loads on a blade by considering the nacelle yaw and blade pitch control. Powell and
Cocke [ 119] discuss the possible wind ﬁelds that can be used for accurate risk assessment
during hurricanes. Nuta et al. [ 61] modeled the seismic fragility of wind turbine towers
based on the Canadian seismic analysis approach. Prowell and Veers [ 32] evaluated the
seismic risk for wind turbine towers and the tower moment demand. The numerical and
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 18 of 29
experimental seismic responses of the prototype of a wind turbine steel tower were obtained
and static, seismic, and stability analyses were carried out [ 63] to design the wind turbine.
Dai et al. [ 120] studied the collapse mode of a wind turbine tower under a wind ﬁeld
generated using the parameters of the cyclone boundary layer ﬂow. Failure occurred due to
the formation of plastic hinges on the towers, which was consistent with ﬁeld observations.
The IEC [ 121] provide the design requirements for OWTs. Chien et al. [ 74] studied wind-
resistant safety designs for a wind turbine tower (WTT) and evaluated them using the
ﬁnite element model, recommending gust factor values and natural frequency for a 660-kW
tower. Kawai et al. [ 72] evaluated the design for wind loads on wind turbines based on
experimental methods. The authors reported that the maximum overturning moment was
induced when wind forces reached peak values instantaneously. Vickery [ 122] proposed a
physics-based approach to determining wind ﬁeld models in hurricane simulations.
Sun et al. [ 123] used copula functions to study complex electronic systems and their
interference. The inﬂuence of wind speed on subassemblies was studied using the causal
and BN models by Su and Fu (2014) [ 124]. Chen et al. [ 125] investigated fault diagnosis in
OWTs using supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) data. Similarly, Gabriel et al.
(2021) [ 126] used the BN model to study threat and security assessment for OWFs. Various
detailed structural analysis models have been developed to evaluate the performance of
individual wind turbine towers, earthquakes, and wave and wind forces; however, limited
research has been undertaken incorporating OWF vulnerability studies with operational
failures. Another study by Lu and Zhang, 2022 [ 127] used a physics-based model and
Bayesian network model to predict power failures during a hurricane. The reliability and
failure behavior of OWTs were studied by Li and Soares [ 128] using a hybrid Bayesian
network model to recommend maintenance intervals. In the study of causal relationships
and conditional probabilities, Bayesian network models using the reliability of systems have
been employed to address failures and have gained popularity [ 129]. Figure 11b shows the
hurricane frequency replicated using MC simulation, with wind speed and failure evaluated
using BN models [ 108]. Based on the literature review, it is evident that the research on the
effects of severe weather on wind turbines uses a catastrophe modeling framework. Such
models are computationally expensive and may not conveniently accommodate future
climate changes, tower construction material deterioration, and structural repairs [ 130].
Research on more efﬁcient and promising models that can incorporate monitored data and
in which interrelationships can be addressed effectively would help stakeholders assess
hurricane vulnerability.
3.4. Risks from Tsunamis for Offshore Wind Farms
Tsunamis are series of waves with long wave lengths and periods generated during
geological disturbances involving earthquakes or volcanic eruptions. Signiﬁcant wave
forces and scour resulting from tsunamis are major threats for the foundations of OWTs.
Bhattacharya et al. (2021) [ 131,132] discuss the technology readiness level of wind
turbine towers and the major challenges for their successful installation. A summary
of the loads affecting wind turbines—wind, seismic, and wave actions—is presented in
this study. The authors also discuss the governing criteria for serviceability limit states.
Furthermore, they discuss the veriﬁcation and validation of models using experimental
data for the foundations (monopile, spar-type ﬂoating) of OWTs and their mechanisms
(only the foundations, the whole system with an actuator, and the whole system with an
eccentric mass). The hydrodynamic loads and soil–structure interactions are discussed in
the article, including one-way cyclic and two-way cyclic loads.
Tsunami propagation (Fuhrman (2009) [ 133]), scour (Fuhrman et al. (2014) [ 134]), and
sediment transportation have been studied in the past. Larsen et al. (2018) [ 135] experi-
mentally investigated the tsunami-induced temporal scour development around monopile
foundations and compared the results with an earlier model (Larsen et al. (2017) [ 136])
based on solving the Navier–Stokes equation utilizing the k- !turbulence closure and
suspended load descriptions (Figure 12). The authors found an excellent match with the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 19 of 29
experimental results for steady-current scour. They also presented similarities between
the diameter-based Froude number and the dimensionless wave boundary layer thickness
and monopile diameter. This study showed that the scour increased in a stepwise cumula-
tive process and most of the scouring occurred in the ﬁrst few periods. The scouring on
the sides was found to be slightly greater and faster than the scouring on the front. The
developed models could predict the scour behavior and equilibrium scour levels, as shown
in Figure 13.
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 21 of 32 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 12. Comparison of ( a) modeled and ( b) experimental scour development. t = actual time in 
seconds, T = characteristic period of motion, S = te mporal evolution of scour, D = monopile diameter 
[138]. 
  
Figure 12. Comparison of ( a) modeled and ( b) experimental scour development. t = actual time
in seconds, T = characteristic period of motion, S = temporal evolution of scour, D = monopile
diameter [135].
Pokhrel (2019) [ 137] modeled the reliability of an OWT subjected to hurricane forces;
namely , wind and wave forces (Figures 14–16). Multiple approaches to reliability analysis—the
FEA-based approach, FAST approach, and Morison equation—are presented in this study.
The authors compared the increase in the exceedance probability of failure with the increase
in wave height for regular waves and irregular waves. The authors also highlighted the
importance of fatigue damage studies and nonlinear wave load action for future research.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 20 of 29
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 22 of 32 
 
  
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 13. Temporal scour development from the experiment  for different cases. t = actual time in 
seconds, T = characteristic period of motion corresponding to the duration of time in which the free stream flow exceeds 0.007 times the maximum free stream speed, S = temporal evolution of scour 
depth (m), D = monopile diameter (m) [139]. ( a) Case 4 (with T=72, S/D = 0.83) ( b) Case 8 (T = 147, 
S/D = 0.98)  
Pokhrel (2019) [140] modeled the reliability of an OWT subjected to hurricane forces; 
namely, wind and wave forces (Figures 14–16). Multiple appr oaches to reliability analy-
sis—the FEA-based approach, FAST approach , and Morison equation—are presented in 
this study. The authors compared the increase  in the exceedance probability of failure 
with the increase in wave height for regula r waves and irregular waves. The authors also 
highlighted the importance of fatigue damage studies and nonlinear wave load action for 
future research. 
Figure 13. Temporal scour development from the experiment for different cases. t = actual time in
seconds, T = characteristic period of motion corresponding to the duration of time in which the free
stream ﬂow exceeds 0.007 times the maximum free stream speed, S = temporal evolution of scour
depth (m), D = monopile diameter (m) [ 136]. (a) Case 4 (with T=72, S/D = 0.83) ( b) Case 8 (T = 147,
S/D = 0.98).
Sanchez et al. (2019) [ 138] studied OWF facilities in-use around the globe and the pre-
dominant foundation types and discussed the evolution and parameters of the monopiles
used in operational wind turbine towers. Further, the article presented a database model of
a monopile using the monomials as features to enable a better understanding of the correla-
tion between variables. Foroughi et al. (2009) [ 139] investigated the characteristics of the
waves and the four different types of wave forces (non-breaking wave forces, breaking wave
forces, broken wave forces, and uplift forces) that arise during tsunamis. The Morison equa-
tion was used to determine the moment and forces generated by the waves affecting the pile
foundations. According to this study, the maximum force acted on the pile when the angle
of the wave incident was between 0 and 20. Amani et al. (2022) [ 140] presented a method-
ology for the analysis and design of seismically liqueﬁable soils. The authors proposed
an additional seven-step methodology to supplement the existing ten-step methodology.
These additional steps included assimilation of seismic data, site-response analysis, check-
ing the stability of the structure (ULS check through the concept of the load-utilization
ratio), input motion selection, prediction of permanent tilt/rotation, and ground settlement
post-liquefaction. The authors validated the method using the observed performance of
offshore and nearshore farms in Japan. Bhattacharya et al. (2021) [ 141] highlighted issues
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 21 of 29
in seismic design, such as liquefaction, which creates problems for monopile-supported
foundations. The authors underscored the better performance of ﬂoating systems compared
to monopile foundation systems in seismic zones due to the minimum inertia loads on
ﬂoating system foundations. However, large fault ruptures can occur in ﬂoating systems.
James and Haldar (2022) [ 142] investigated the inﬂuence of multidirectional ground motion
using soil–pile–jacket–tower ﬁnite element models for large offshore turbines. The authors
studied the inﬂuence of the jacket base width and embedment length on earthquake resis-
tance. Vertical excitation at higher modes during higher-intensity earthquakes is critical for
serviceability design. Hong and Sheng (2022) [ 143] studied the wind load and wave load
requirements for the reliability assessment of wind turbine towers using the FAST package.
While studies exist on the effect of tsunami forces on monopile foundation systems, there is
limited research on how tsunamis affect ﬂoating foundations. Future research may shed
more light on risk and design criteria for ﬂoating foundations.
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 23 of 32 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 14. Comparison of fragility curves for OWTs with  OBM mudline with respect to wave height 
for (a) different waves and ( b) different wind speeds with irregular waves [140]. 
Figure 14. Comparison of fragility curves for OWTs with OBM mudline with respect to wave height
for (a) different waves and ( b) different wind speeds with irregular waves [137].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 22 of 29
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 24 of 32 
 
  
Figure 15. Peak OBM levels in the OWT model with the mudline compared to wave 
height obtained using three approaches [140]. 
 
Figure 16. Fragility curve for OBM mudline with varying wave heights [140]. 
Sanchez et al. (2019) [141] studied OWF facilities in-use around the globe and the 
predominant foundation types and discussed the evolution and parameters of the mono-
piles used in operational wind turbine towers . Further, the article presented a database 
model of a monopile using the monomials as fe atures to enable a better understanding of 
the correlation between variables. Foroughi et  al. (2009) [142] investigated the character-
istics of the waves and the four different types of wave forces (non-breaking wave forces, breaking wave forces, broken wave forces, an d uplift forces) that arise during tsunamis. 
The Morison equation was used to determin e the moment and forces generated by the 
Figure 15. Peak OBM levels in the OWT model with the mudline compared to wave height obtained
using three approaches [137].
Energies  2023 , 16, 1207 24 of 32 
 
  
Figure 15. Peak OBM levels in the OWT model with the mudline compared to wave 
height obtained using three approaches [140]. 
 
Figure 16. Fragility curve for OBM mudline with varying wave heights [140]. 
Sanchez et al. (2019) [141] studied OWF facilities in-use around the globe and the 
predominant foundation types and discussed the evolution and parameters of the mono-
piles used in operational wind turbine towers . Further, the article presented a database 
model of a monopile using the monomials as fe atures to enable a better understanding of 
the correlation between variables. Foroughi et  al. (2009) [142] investigated the character-
istics of the waves and the four different types of wave forces (non-breaking wave forces, breaking wave forces, broken wave forces, an d uplift forces) that arise during tsunamis. 
The Morison equation was used to determin e the moment and forces generated by the 
Figure 16. Fragility curve for OBM mudline with varying wave heights [137].
3.5. Risk from Lightning
Bouchard et al. [ 144] estimated the risk of lightning strikes induced by thunderstorms
using thresholds and weighting functions, neural networks, and belief functions. Wind
energy output improves with the height of towers, but taller towers are increasingly
sensitive to lightning damage. Rachidi et al. [ 145] showed the challenges affecting modern
towers, such as upward lightning being neglected in design and construction. The authors
also showed that the rotation of blades can inﬂuence the number of strikes, as it may
trigger lightning. The carbon-reinforced plastics used in towers can worsen the problem.
Zhou et al. [ 146] investigated the lightning attachment characteristic of a 2 MW wind
turbine generator using a reduced model. Downward negative lightning strikes occur,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 23 of 29
and LPSs can intercept front- and side-direction lightning but not back-direction lightning.
Furthermore, an increase in the striking distance reduces the capture ratio for the insulation
part of the blade. Boopathi et al. [ 147] surveyed the damage to wind turbines due to
multiple causes in India, including lightning. The authors pointed out the seasonal nature
of the lightning strikes, which can trigger the need for emergency repairs and blade bolt
replacement. Blade damage due to lightning is the most common reason for downtimes,
which can last up to 200 days. Geographically, strikes are spread through the Indian
regions of Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu. March [ 148] described the methodology
for and issues in lightning risk assessment for wind turbines. While the IEC provide a
methodology for lightning risk assessment, the author pointed out that the method is
inadequate. According to the author, the inﬂuence of local terrain, the difference in the
lightning mechanism with the proximity of turbines, winter lightning, and height above
sea level are major factors that inﬂuence percentages of upward lightning. The author
also discussed the non-convective distribution of monthly variations in lightning at two
sites. Matsui et al. [ 149] investigated improvements in the lightning damage detection
model, which can halt wind turbines if damage is detected using ML based on SCADA
system data. The authors stated that damage from lightning can expand due to centrifugal
force and cause serious secondary damage. They implemented a Gaussian mixture model
with SCADA data (rotational speed) for anomaly detection using feature extraction and a
learning and assessment method. Becerra et al. [ 150] examined the incidences of downward
lightning, as well as self-initiated upward ﬂashes and upward ﬂashes triggered in other
ways, affecting offshore turbines. The authors investigated the risk using the self-consistent
leader inception and propagation model. They indicated that only a small fraction of
damage can be attributed to downward lightning. Upward lightning can be triggered
under low thundercloud ﬁelds and a small fraction of active thunderstorms can result in
upward lightning being self-initiated. Zalhaf et al. [ 151] investigated the transient response
of WTs when two blades are simultaneously struck by lightning using a time-domain circuit
model and veriﬁed the results using an experimental model. To better understand the
lightning risk and develop protection systems, further research is needed.
4. Conclusions
Owing to technological advancement, larger and taller wind turbines are being devel-
oped, thus making them more prone to risks from increasingly frequent natural hazards,
such as high-velocity hurricane wind, seismic loads, lightning, and hydrodynamic loads.
Given the huge ﬁnancial investment in wind farms, it is important to make these critical
elements of energy infrastructure more resilient and efﬁcient. Each component responds
in a unique way to each load type. The risks for wind turbines from the effects of various
natural hazards (earthquakes, severe winds, and tsunamis) on wind turbine towers, blades,
and foundations were reviewed in this study. This study covered the literature on analysis
methods, mathematical simulations, and ﬁnite element analysis of wind turbine towers in
relation to different natural hazard phenomena. Moreover, component-level testing; full-
scale model testing; structural performance evaluations based on probability; and statistical
approaches, such as fragility analysis and Bayesian network modeling, were also reviewed.
Based on the analysis of the literature, the following conclusions can be summarized.
 For seismic and high-velocity events affecting inland wind turbines, researchers point out
that foundation failures are critical. The main areas of study include the effects of higher
modes of vibration on design and response, the influences of near-fault and far-fault
seismic loads, and the influences of the directionality and characteristics of seismic and
wind loads. Integration of data-based and physics-based models is gaining popularity in
many fields. More research is needed to utilize monitored data to quantify the seismic
risk for wind turbines. While design methodologies have improved over time, accidents
and construction errors can trigger failures. Further research should focus on reducing
construction errors and improving inspection methodologies.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 24 of 29
 Hurricane risk modeling for OWTs relies heavily on hurricane track simulation. This
can be computationally challenging, and alternate, simpler methods may be helpful to
reduce computation costs. Moreover, frameworks that can accommodate changing
risk scenarios in response to climate change (following guidelines from government
agencies or agencies such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)),
the latest construction materials, and monitored data from wind turbine farms would
be useful for more efﬁcient risk analysis.
 Experimental and analytical methods for studying tsunami risk exist, and there are
more research contributions based on experimental methods using scaled-down mod-
els. The effects of wave loads, soil–structure interactions, scouring of foundations,
and permanent settlement on the design and performance evaluation of wind turbine
structures are critical in tsunami risk. There is limited research on tsunami risk for
ﬂoating foundations. Future research should focus on risk and design criteria for
ﬂoating foundations in relation to tsunami waves. Moreover, researchers point out the
need to include higher modes of vibration in analyses in future research. The transient
nature of foundation scour is also potential future research topic.
 Tall wind turbines are sensitive to lightning strikes, which occur with seasonal and
geographical variations. Detecting lightning damage is critical, as it can propagate
further damage and result in expensive repairs and downtime. While mathematical
and experimental methods exist, researchers highlight the need for more research on
self-triggered lightning, which results in enhanced risk even under low thundercloud
ﬁelds. Moreover, further research is needed to explore the extent of structural damage
in the towers of WTs from lightning.
Due to the intent to increase the share of renewable energy worldwide, taller wind
turbines are expected. However, with changing hazard scenarios, the risks for wind
turbines from natural hazards also change. Current research on turbine risk analysis and
experimental methods needs further expansion to solve these future challenges.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, A.P . and B.A.; methodology, A.P .; software, C.P .; valida-
tion, A.P ., C.P . and B.A.; formal analysis, A.P . and B.A.; investigation, A.P .; resources, A.P . and C.P .;
data curation, A.P .; writing—original draft preparation, A.P . and B.A.; writing—review and editing,
C.P . and B.A.; visualization, A.P .; supervision, A.P . and B.A.; project administration, A.P . All authors
have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Data Availability Statement: The articles reviewed in this research were obtained from public resources.
Acknowledgments: The authors would like to acknowledge the reviewers’ efforts and their valuable
time and comments.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. GWEC. Global Wind Report 2019 ; Global Wind Energy Council: Brussels, Belgium, 2019.
2. Share of Electricity Production from Wind, (n.d.) Our World in Data. Available online: https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/
share-electricity-wind (accessed on 1 December 2022).
3. Wikipedia. Wind Power in the United States. Available online: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wind_power_in_the_United_
States (accessed on 19 December 2022).
4. World Forum Offshore Wind (WFO). Global Offshore Wind Report ; World Forum Offshore Wind (WFO): Hamburg, Germany, 2022.
5. Global Wind Energy Council. Offshore Market Outlook to 2030 ; Global Wind Energy Council: Brussels, Belgium, 2020.
6. World Forum Offshore Wind. Offshore Wind Worldwide ‘Regulatory Framework in Selected Countries’. Available online: https:
//www.hoganlovells.com/en/publications/offshore-wind-worldwide_regulatory-framework-in-selected-countries (accessed
on 22 November 2022).
7. Global Wind Atlas. (n.d.). Globalwindatlas.Info. Available online: https://globalwindatlas.info/en (accessed on
2 December 2022).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 25 of 29
8. Schmidt, J.; Gruber, K.; Klingler, M.; Klöckl, C.; Camargo, L.R.; Regner, P .; Turkovska, O.; Wehrle, S.; Wetterlund, E. A new
perspective on global renewable energy systems: Why trade in energy carriers matters. Energy Environ. Sci. 2019 ,12, 2022–2029.
[CrossRef]
9. DNV . Available online: https://www.dnv.com/article/how-do-recent-earthquakes-events-impact-wind-turbines--179350 (ac-
cessed on 1 December 2022).
10. Ma, Y.; Martinez-Vazquez, P .; Baniotopoulos, C. Wind turbine tower collapse cases: A historical overview. Proc. Inst. Civil Eng.
Struct. Build. 2019 ,172, 547–555. [CrossRef]
11. Ishihara, T.; Yamaguchi, A.; Takahara, K.; Mekaru, T.; Matsuura, S. An analysis of damaged wind turbines by typhoon Maemi
in 2003. In Proceedings of the Sixth Asia-Paciﬁc Conference on Wind Engineering, Seoul, Korea, 12–14 September 2005; pp.
1413–1428.
12. Chou, J.-S.; Tu, W.-T. Failure analysis and risk management of a collapsed large wind turbine tower. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2011 ,
18, 295–313. [CrossRef]
13. Chen, X.; Xu, J.Z. Structural failure analysis of wind turbines impacted by super typhoon Usagi. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2016 ,60, 391–404.
[CrossRef]
14. Science Codex Report. Available online: https://www.sciencecodex.com/nasa_sees_usagi_become_a_typhoon-119661 (accessed
on 22 November 2022).
15. Li, Z.-Q.; Chen, S.-J.; Ma, H.; Feng, T. Design defect of wind turbine operating in typhoon activity zone. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2013 ,
27, 165–172. [CrossRef]
16. Wolfgang, G.; Racansky, V .; Maurer, C.; Freitag, P . Ground Improvement for Wind Turbine Foundations in Europe. Messe Wien (Vienna
Austria) ; European Wind Energy Association (EWEA): Brussels, Belgium, 2013.
17. Riso DTU. Final Report on Investigation of a Catastrophic Turbine Failures ; Technical University of Denmark: Copenhagen,
Denmark, 2008.
18. Porter, L. Strong Wind Destroys Searsburg Wind Turbine, Rutland Herald. Available online: https://www.timesargus.com/
news/blade-ﬂies-off-destroying-wind-tower-at-searsburg/article_fc312d10-a65d-51cd-8456-6a50d3eb4dea.html (accessed on
15 October 2022).
19. Watts, A. Wind Power Gets Bent out of Shape in Wyoming. Available online: https://wattsupwiththat.com/2011/02/02/wind-
power-gets-bent-out-of-shape-in-wyoming/ (accessed on 10 March 2022).
20. Potrikus, A. New, Higher Wind Turbine Going up in Place of One That Toppled in the Town of Fenner. Available online:
https://www.syracuse.com/news/2012/10/new_higher_wind_turbine_going.html (accessed on 27 December 2022).
21. Polacek, K. Wind Turbine Topples in Mill Run, Startles Residents. Available online: https://www.wind-watch.org/news/2014/0
1/16/wind-turbine-topples-in-mill-run-startles-residents/ (accessed on 27 December 2022).
22. Backstrand, J.; Hurtig. Final Report RO 2017:01 ; Statens Haverikommission: Stockholm, Sweden, 2017.
23. PEI. Collapse of Wind Turbine under Investigation ; Power Engineering International: Saxony, Germany, 2017.
24. Elsisi, M.; Tran, M.-Q.; Mahmoud, K.; Lehtonen, M.; Darwish, M.M.F. Robust design of ANFIS-based blade pitch controller for
wind energy conversion systems against wind speed ﬂuctuations. IEEE Access 2021 ,9, 37894–37904. [CrossRef]
25. CWIF. Wind Accidents—Caithness Windfarm Information Forum. 2017. Available online: https://slidelegend.com/wind-
accidents-caithness-windfarm-information-forum_59e4cd921723dd1b30b8ce69.html (accessed on 9 October 2022).
26. Seong, J.; Haigh, S.; Madabhushi, S.; Shrivastava, R.; Veluvolu, R.; Padhy, P . On seismic protection of wind turbine foundations
founded on liqueﬁable soils. Soil Dyn. Earthq. Eng. 2022 ,159, 107327. [CrossRef]
27. Ishihara, T.; Phuc, P .V .; Fujino, Y.; Takahara, K.; Mekaru, T. A ﬁled Test and full dynamic simulation on a stall regulated wind tur-
bine. In Proceedings of the Sixth Asia-Paciﬁc Conference on Wind Engineering (APCWE-VI), Seoul, Korea, 12–14 September 2005 .
28. Wind Action Report. Available online: https://www.windaction.org/posts/43219-typhoon-maemi-downs-wind-turbines-japan
(accessed on 16 December 2022).
29. The Telegraph. Available online: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/02/15/pictured-storms-send-300ft-welsh-wind-
turbine-crashing-ground/ (accessed on 19 December 2022).
30. Windustry. How Much do Wind Turbines Cost? Available online: https://www.windustry.org/how_much_do_wind_turbines_
cost (accessed on 20 December 2022).
31. Blewett, D. Weather Guard Lightning Tech. Wind Turbine Cost: Worth the Million-Dollar Price in 2022? Available online:
https://weatherguardwind.com/how-much-does-wind-turbine-cost-worth-it/ (accessed on 22 December 2022).
32. Prowell, I.; Veers, P . Assessment of Wind Turbine Seismic Risk: Existing Literature and Simple Study of Tower Moment Demand ; SANDIA
REPORT; Sandia National Laboratories (SNL): Albuquerque, NM, USA; Livermore, CA, USA, 2009.
33. Ntambakwa, E.; Rogers, M. Seismic Forces for Wind Turbine Foundations Wind Turbine Structures, Dynamics, Loads and Control ; Garrad
Hassan America, Inc.: San Diego, CA, USA, 2009.
34. Agbayani, N.A. Design challenges in international wind power projects: From foreign codes to computer coding in a small ofﬁce
setting. In Proceedings of the 71st Annual Structural Engineers Association of California (SEAOC) Convention, Santa Barbara,
CA, USA; 2002; pp. 117–132.
35. ICBO. Uniform Building Code ; International Conference of Building Ofﬁcials: Washington, DC, USA, 1997; Volume 2.
36. GL, Rules and Guidelines, Industrial Services. Guidelines for Certiﬁcation of Offshore Wind Turbines ; Germanischer Lloyd: Hamburg,
Germany, 2005.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 26 of 29
37. IEC. Wind Turbines—Part 1: Design Requirements ; International Electrotechnical Commission: Geneva, Switzerland, 2005.
38. DNV Risø National Laboratory. Guidelines for Design of Wind Turbines , 2nd ed.; Wind Energy Department, Risø National
Laboratory: Risø, Denmark, 2002.
39. Anderson, C.; Bertero, V . Uncertainties in establishing design earthquakes. J. Struct. Eng. 1987 ,113, 1709–1724. [CrossRef]
40. Bertero, V .V .; Mahin, S.A.; Herrera, R.A. Aseismic design implications of near-fault San Fernando earthquake records. Earthq. Eng.
Struct. Dyn. 1978 ,6, 31–42. [CrossRef]
41. Hall, J.F.; Heaton, T.H.; Halling, M.W.; Wald, D. Near-source ground motion and its effects on ﬂexible buildings. Earthq. Spectra
1995 ,11, 569–605. [CrossRef]
42. Attalla, M.; Paret, T.; Freeman, S. Near source behavior of buildings under pulse type earthquakes. In Proceedings of the 6th U.S.
National Conference on Earthquake Engineering, Seattle, WA, USA, 31 May–4 June 1998.
43. Iwan, W.D. Drift spectrum: Measure of demand for earthquake ground motions. Eng. Struct. 1997 ,123, 397–404. [CrossRef]
44. Chopra, A.K.; Chintanapakdee, C. Comparing response of SDF systems to near-fault and far-fault earthquake motions in the
context of spectral regions. Earthq. Eng. Struct. Dyn. 2001 ,30, 1769–1789. [CrossRef]
45. Hatzigeorgiou, G.D. Ductility demand spectra for multiple near- and far-fault earthquakes. Soil Dyn. Earthq. Eng. 2010 ,
30, 170–183. [CrossRef]
46. Kalkan, E.; Kunnath, S.K. Effects of Fling Step and Forward Directivity on Seismic Response of Buildings. Earthq. Spectra 2006 ,
22, 367–390. [CrossRef]
47. Alavi, B.; Krawinkler, H. Behavior of moment-resisting frame structures subjected to near-fault ground motions. Earthq. Eng.
Struct. Dyn. 2004 ,33, 687–706. [CrossRef]
48. Baker, J. Quantitative classiﬁcation of near-fault ground motions using wavelet analysis. Bull. Seism. Soc. Am. 2007 ,97, 1486–1501.
[CrossRef]
49. Bray, J.; Rodriguez-Mark, A. Characterization of forward-directivity ground motions in the near-fault region. Soil Dyn. Earthq.
Eng. 2004 ,24, 815–828. [CrossRef]
50. Somerville, P .G. Magnitude scaling of the near fault rupture directivity pulse. Phys. Earth Planet. Inter. 2003 ,137, 201–212.
[CrossRef]
51. Hwang, H.H.; Huo, J.-R. Generation of hazard-consistent fragility curves. Soil Dyn. Earthq. Eng. 1994 ,13, 345–354. [CrossRef]
52. Baker, J. Efﬁcient Analytical Fragility Function Fitting Using Dynamic Structural Analysis. Earthq. Spectra 2005 ,31, 579–599.
[CrossRef]
53. Hwang, H.H.M.; Jaw, J. Probabilistic damage analysis of structures. Eng. Struct. 1990 ,116, 1992–2007. [CrossRef]
54. Eads, L.; Miranda, E.; Krawinkler, H.; Lignos, D. An efﬁcient method for estimating the collapse risk of structures in seismic
regions. Earthq. Eng. Struct. Dyn. 2013 ,42, 25–41. [CrossRef]
55. Lignos, D.G.; Kolios, D.; Miranda, E. Fragility assessment of reduced beam section moment connections. Eng. Struct. 2010 ,136,
1140–1150. [CrossRef]
56. Ramirez, C.M.; Lignos, D.; Miranda, E.; Kolios, D. Fragility functions for pre-Northridge welded steel moment-resisting beam-to-
column connections. Eng. Struct. 2012 ,45, 574–584. [CrossRef]
57. Ellingwood, B.R.; Celik, O.C.; Kinali, K. Fragility assessment of building structural systems in Mid-America. Earthq. Eng. Struct.
Dyn. 2007 ,36, 1935–1952. [CrossRef]
58. Nielson, B.G.; DesRoches, R. Seismic fragility methodology for highway bridges using a component level approach. Earthq. Eng.
Struct. Dyn. 2007 ,36, 823–839. [CrossRef]
59. Sousa, L.; Silva, A.; Marques, M.; Crowley, H.; Pinho, R. Including multiple IMTs in the fragility functions for earthquake loss
estimation. In Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Vulnerability and Risk Analysis and Management, Liverpool,
UK, 13–16 July 2014; pp. 1716–1725.
60. Kafali, C.; Grigoriu, M. Seismic fragility analysis. In Proceedings of the 9th ASCE Specialty Conference on Mechanics and
Structural Reliability (PMC), Albuquerque, NM, USA, 26–28 July 2004.
61. Nuta, E.; Christopoulos, C.; Packer, J.A.P .A. Methodology for seismic risk assessment for tubular steel wind turbine towers:
Application to Canadian seismic environment. Can. J. Civ. Eng. 2011 ,38, 293–304. [CrossRef]
62. Prowell, I.; Veletzos, M.; Elgamal, A.; Restrepo, J. Experimental and numerical seismic response of a 65 kW wind turbine. J. Earthq.
Eng. 2009 ,13, 1172–1190. [CrossRef]
63. Bazeos, N.; Hatzigeorgiou, G.; Hondros, I.; Karamaneas, H.; Karabalis, D.; Beskos, D. Static, seismic and stability analyses of a
prototype wind turbine steel tower. Eng. Struct. 2002 ,24, 1015–1025. [CrossRef]
64. Patil, A. Response of a Wind Turbine Structure to Strong Ground Motions and High Velocity Winds. Ph.D. Dissertation, Florida
State University, Tallahassee, FL, USA, 2015.
65. Prowell, I.; Elgamal, A.; Uang, C.; Jonkman, J. Estimation of Seismic Load Demand for a Wind Turbine in the Time Domain ; Conference
Paper NREL CP-500-47536; National Renewable Energy Laboratory: Golden, CO, USA, 2010.
66. Lavassas, I.; Nikolaidis, G.; Zervas, P .; Baniotopoulos, C. Design of Large Scale Wind Turbine Towers In Seismic Areas ; Aristotle
University of Thessaloniki: Volos, Greece, 2012.
67. Ishihara, T.; Sarwar, M.W. Numerical and theoretical study on response of wind turbines. In Proceedings of the European Wind
Energy Conference and Exhibition, Tokyo, Japan, 31 March–3 April 2008; pp. 1–5.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 27 of 29
68. Hanler, M.; Ritchel, U.; Warnke, I. Systematic modelling of wind turbine dynamics and earthquake loads on wind turbines. In
Proceedings of the European Wind Energy Conference and Exhibition, European Wind Energy Association, Athens, Greece, 27
February–2 March 2006; pp. 1–6.
69. Prowell, I.; Veletzos, M.; Elgamal, A.; Restrepo, J. Shake table test of A 65 kW wind turbine and computational simulation. In
Proceedings of the 14th World Conference on Earthquake Engineering, Beijing, China, 12–17 October 2008.
70. Zhao, X.; Maisser, P . Seismic response analysis of wind turbine towers including soil- structure interaction. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng.
2006 ,220, 53. [CrossRef]
71. Quilligan, A.; O’Connor, A.; Pakrashi, V . Fragility analysis of steel and concrete wind turbine towers. Eng. Struct. 2012 ,36, 270–282.
[CrossRef]
72. Kawai, H.; Michishita, K.; Deguchi, A. Design wind loads on a wind turbine for strong wind. In Proceedings of the BBAA VI
International Colloquium on Bluff Bodies Aerodynamics & Applications, Milano, Italy, 20–24 July 2008.
73. Lee, K.-S.; Bang, H.-J. A study on the prediction of lateral buckling load for wind turbine tower structures. Int. J. Precis. Eng.
Manuf. 2012 ,13, 1829–1836. [CrossRef]
74. Chien, C.-W.; Jang, J.-J. A study of wind-resistant safety design of wind turbines tower system. In Proceedings of the Seventh
Asia-Paciﬁc Conference on Wind Engineering, Taipei, Taiwan, 8–12 November 2009.
75. Rose, S.; Jaramillo, P .; Small, M.; Grossmann, I.; Apt, J. Quantifying the hurricane risk to offshore wind turbines. Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. USA 2012 ,109, 3247–3252. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
76. Ellingwood, B.R.; Rosowsky, D.V .; Li, Y.; Kim, J.H. Fragility assessment of light-frame wood construction subjected to wind and
earthquake hazards. Eng. Struct. 2004 ,130, 1921–1930. [CrossRef]
77. Agarwal, P .; Manuel, L. Simulation of offshore wind turbine response for extreme limit states. In Proceedings of the 26th
International Conference on Offshore Mechanics and Arctic Engineering, OMEA, San Diego, CA, USA, 10–15 June 2007.
78. ATC. Earthquake Damage Evaluation Data for California ; Applied Technical Council: Redwood City, CA, USA, 1985.
79. Jernigan, J.; Hwang, H. Development of bridge fragility curves. In Proceedings of the 7th US National Conference on Earthquake
Engineering, EERI, Boston, MA, USA, 21–25 July 2002.
80. Mander, J.; Basoz, N. Seismic fragility curve theory for highway bridges. In Proceedings of the 5th US Conference on Lifeline
Earthquake Engineering, ASCE, Seattle, WA, USA, 9–12 May 1999.
81. Monti, G.; Nistic ò, N. Simple probability-based assessment of bridges under scenario earthquakes. J. Bridg. Eng. 2002 ,7, 104–114.
[CrossRef]
82. Karim, K.R.; Yamazaki, F. A simpliﬁed method of constructing fragility curves for highway bridges. Earthq. Eng. Struct. Dyn.
2003 ,32, 1603–1626. [CrossRef]
83. Mackie, K.R.; Stojadinovi´ c, B. Post-earthquake functionality of highway overpass bridges. Earthq. Eng. Struct. Dyn. 2006 ,
35, 77–93. [CrossRef]
84. Basoz, N.; Kiremidjian, A. Development of empirical fragility curves for bridges. In Proceedings of the 5th US Conference on
Lifeline Earthquake Engineering, ASCE, Seattle, WA, USA, 9–12 May 1999.
85. Shinozuka, M.; Feng, M.Q.; Lee, J.; Naganuma, T. Statistical analysis of fragility curves. J. Eng. Mech. 2000 ,126, 1224–1231.
[CrossRef]
86. Yun, S.-Y.; Hamburger, R.; Cornell, A.; Foutch, D. Seismic performance evaluation for steel moment frames. J. Struct. Eng. 2002 ,
128, 534–545. [CrossRef]
87. Jeong, S.-H.; Elnashai, A. Probabilistic fragility analysis parametrized by fundamental response quantities. Eng. Struct. 2007 ,29,
1238–1251. [CrossRef]
88. Cornell, C.A.; Jalayer, F.; Hamburger, R.O.; Foutch, D.A. Probabilistic basis for 2000 SAC federal emergency management agency
steel moment frame guidelines. Eng. Struct. 2002 ,128, 526–533. [CrossRef]
89. Nielson, B. Analytical Fragility Curves for Highway Bridges in Moderate Seismic Zones. Ph.D. Thesis, Georgia Institute of
Technology, Altanta, GA, USA, 2005.
90. Jonkman, J.; Buhl, M. FAST User’s Guide, National Renewable Energy Laboratory Technical Report; NREL/EL, 500-38230. 2005.
Available online: https://openfast.readthedocs.io/en/main/_downloads/d8bd014121d6505cb25cf49bee5eaa80/Old_FAST6
_UsersGuide.pdf (accessed on 1 December 2022).
91. Jonkman, B. TurbSim User’s Guide. Version 1.50, National Renewable Energy Laboratory Technical Report, NREL/TP , 500-46198.
2009. Available online: https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy09osti/46198.pdf (accessed on 1 December 2022).
92. Kim, E.; Manuel, L. Hurricane-induced loads on offshore wind turbines with considerations for nacelle yaw and blade pitch
control. Wind. Eng. 2014 ,38, 413–423. [CrossRef]
93. Guo, L.; Uang, C.-M.; Elgamal, A.; Prowell, I.; Zhang, S. Pushover analysis of a 53 m high wind turbine tower. Adv. Sci. Lett. 2011 ,
4, 1–7. [CrossRef]
94. Matic, P . Numerically predicting ductile material behavior from tensile specimen response. Theor. Appl. Fract. Mech. 1985 ,4, 13–28.
[CrossRef]
95. Voth, A. Branch Plate-to-Circular Hollow Structural Section Connections. Ph.D. Thesis, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON,
Canada, 2010.
96. Ciang, C.C.; Lee, J.-R.; Bang, H.-J. Structural health monitoring for a wind turbine system: A review of damage detection methods.
Meas. Sci. Technol. 2008 ,19, 122001. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 28 of 29
97. Katsaprakakis, D.A.; Papadakis, N.; Ntintakis, I. A comprehensive analysis of wind turbine blade damage. Energies 2021 ,14, 5974.
[CrossRef]
98. Flemming, M.L.; Troels, S. New lightning qualiﬁcation test procedure for large wind turbine blades. In Proceedings of the
International Conference Lightning and Static Electricity, Blackpool, UK, 16–19 September 2003.
99. Abdussalam, S.R. Damage and Fracture Mechanics of Composite Materials ; University of Manitoba: Winnipeg, MB, Canada, 2000.
100. Davidson, B.D.; Gharibian, S.J.; Yu, L. Evaluation of energy release rate-based approaches for predicting delamination growth in
laminated composites. Int. J. Fract. 2000 ,105, 343–365. [CrossRef]
101. Jorgensen, E.R.; Borum, K.K.; McGugan, M.; Thomsen, C.L.; Jensen, F.M.; Debel, C.P .; Sorensen, B.F. Full Scale Testing of
Wind Turbine Blade to Failure-Flapwise Loading, Riso National Laboratory, Riso-R-1392(EN), Roskilde. 2004. Available online:
https://www.osti.gov/etdeweb/servlets/purl/20559467 (accessed on 1 December 2022).
102. Chou, J.-S.; Chiu, C.-K.; Huang, I.-K.; Chi, K.-N. Failure analysis of wind turbine blade under critical wind loads. Eng. Fail. Anal.
2013 ,27, 99–118. [CrossRef]
103. Hallowell, S.T.; Myers, A.T.; Arwade, S.R.; Pang, W.; Rawal, P .; Hines, E.M.; Hajjar, J.F.; Qiao, C.; Valamanesh, V .; Wei, K.; et al.
Hurricane risk assessment of offshore wind turbines. Renew. Energy 2018 ,125, 234–249. [CrossRef]
104. Hallowell, S.T.; Arwade, S.R.; Fontana, C.M.; DeGroot, D.J.; Aubeny, C.P .; Diaz, B.D.; Myers, A.T.; Landon, M.E. System reliability
of ﬂoating offshore wind farms with multiline anchors. Ocean Eng. 2018 ,160, 94–104. [CrossRef]
105. Dueñas-Osorio, L.; Basu, B. Unavailability of wind turbines due to wind-induced accelerations. Eng. Struct. 2008 ,30, 885–893.
[CrossRef]
106. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; Martin, O.B.; McMillan, D.; Bakhshi, R. Offshore Wind Turbine Sub-Assembly Failure Rates through
Time: EWEA 2015 Annual Event. 2015. Available online: https://strathprints.strath.ac.uk/54985/1/Carroll_etal_EWEA_2015
_Offshore_wind_turbine_and_sub_assembly_failure_rates.pdf (accessed on 1 December 2022).
107. Kim, E.; Manuel, L. A framework for hurricane risk assessment of offshore wind farms. In Proceedings of the International Conference
on Offshore Mechanics and Arctic Engineering ; American Society of Mechanical Engineers: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 2012; Volume
44946, pp. 617–622.
108. Alduse, B.; Patil, A. A Bayesian network model for assessing hurricane vulnerability of offshore wind farm. Structures Department,
Stanley D. Lindsey Associates, Brentwood, TN, USA. 2023; preprint .
109. FEMA, HAZUS 5.1; Hazus Hurricane Model Technical Manual, Washington, D.C., July 2022. Available online: https://www.fema.
gov/sites/default/ﬁles/documents/fema_hazus-hurricane-model-technical-manual-5-1.pdf (accessed on 1 December 2022).
110. Staid, A.; Guikema, S.D. Risk analysis for US offshore wind farms: The need for an integrated approach. Risk Anal. 2015 ,
35, 587–593. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
111. Wilkie, D.; Galasso, C. A probabilistic framework for offshore wind turbine loss assessment. Renew. Energy 2020 ,147, 1772–1783.
[CrossRef]
112. Yin, P .-Y.; Wu, T.-H.; Hsu, P .-Y. Risk management of wind farm micro-siting using an enhanced genetic algorithm with simulation
optimization. Renew. Energy 2017 ,107, 508–521. [CrossRef]
113. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; McMillan, D. Failure rate, repair time and unscheduled O&M cost analysis of offshore wind turbines.
Wind Energy 2016 ,19, 1107–1119.
114. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; Dinwoodie, I.; McMillan, D.; Revie, M.; Lazakis, I. Availability, operation and maintenance costs of
offshore wind turbines with different drive train conﬁgurations. Wind. Energy 2017 ,20, 361–378. [CrossRef]
115. Tavner, P .; Edwards, C.; Brinkman, A.; Spinato, F. Inﬂuence of wind speed on wind turbine reliability. Wind. Eng. 2006 ,30, 55–72.
[CrossRef]
116. Sørensen, J.N.; Shen, W.Z. Numerical modeling of wind turbine wakes. J. Fluids Eng. 2002 ,124, 393–399. [CrossRef]
117. Chou, J.S.; Tu, W.T. Lessons learned from a collapsed wind turbine tower in Taiwan. In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Computing in Civil and Building Engineering, Austin, TX, USA, 24–27 June 2009.
118. Amirinia, G.; Jung, S. Buffeting response analysis of offshore wind turbines subjected to hurricanes. Ocean Eng. 2017 ,141, 1–11.
[CrossRef]
119. Powell, M.D.; Cocke, S. Hurricane wind ﬁelds needed to assess risk to offshore wind farms. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2012 ,109,
E2192–E2194. [CrossRef]
120. Dai, K.; Sheng, C.; Zhao, Z.; Yi, Z.; Camara, A.; Bitsuamlak, G. Nonlinear response history analysis and collapse mode study of a
wind turbine tower subjected to tropical cyclonic winds. Wind. Struct. 2017 ,25, 79–100.
121. IEC 61400-3 ; Design Requirements for Offshore Wind Turbines. IEC: London, UK, 2009.
122. Vickery, P .J.; Skerlj, P .F.; Steckley, A.C.; Twisdale, L.A. Hurricane wind ﬁeld model for use in hurricane simulations. Eng. Struct.
2000 ,126, 1203–1221. [CrossRef]
123. Sun, B.; Li, Y.; Wang, Z.; Yang, D.; Ren, Y.; Feng, Q. A combined physics of failure and Bayesian network reliability analysis
method for complex electronic systems. Process. Saf. Environ. Prot. 2021 ,148, 698–710. [CrossRef]
124. Su, C.; Fu, Y.Q. Reliability assessment for wind turbines considering the inﬂuence of wind speed using Bayesian network. Eksploat.
Niezawodn. 2014 ,16, 1–8.
125. Chen, B.; Tavner, P .J.; Feng, Y.; Song, W.W.; Qiu, Y.N. Bayesian Network for Wind Turbine Fault Diagnosis. 2012. Available online:
https://dro.dur.ac.uk/11029/1/11029.pdf (accessed on 1 December 2022).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2023 ,16, 1207 29 of 29
126. Gabriel, A.; Tecklenburg, B.; Guillouet, Y.; Torres, F.S. Threat analysis of offshore wind farms by Bayesian networks-a new
modeling approach. In Proceedings of the ISCRAM 2021 Conference Proceedings-18th International Conference on Information
Systems for Crisis Response and Management, Omaha, NE, USA, 28–31 May 2021; pp. 174–185.
127. Lu, Q.; Zhang, W. Integrating dynamic Bayesian network and physics-based modeling for risk analysis of a time-dependent
power distribution system during hurricanes. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2022 ,220, 108290. [CrossRef]
128. Li, H.; Soares, C.G.; Huang, H.-Z. Reliability analysis of a ﬂoating offshore wind turbine using Bayesian Networks. Ocean Eng.
2020 ,217, 107827. [CrossRef]
129. Adedipe, T.; Shaﬁee, M.; Zio, E. Bayesian network modelling for the wind energy industry: An overview. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf.
2020 ,202, 107053. [CrossRef]
130. Knutson, T.R.; Chung, M.V .; Vecchi, G.; Sun, J.; Hsieh, T.L.; Smith, A.J. Climate change is probably increasing the intensity of
tropical cyclones. Sci. Brief Review. 2021 , 4570334. [CrossRef]
131. Bhattacharya, S.; Lombardi, D.; Amani, S.; Aleem, M.; Prakhya, G.; Adhikari, S.; Vimalan, N. Physical mod-elling of offshore
wind turbine foundations for TRL (Technology Readiness Level) studies. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2021 ,9, 589. [CrossRef]
132. Bhattacharya, S.; De Risi, R.; Lombardi, D.; Ali, A.; Demirci, H.; Haldar, S. On the seismic analysis and design of offshore wind
turbines. Soil Dyn. Earthq. Eng. 2021 ,145, 106692. [CrossRef]
133. Fuhrman, D.R.; Madsen, P .A. Tsunami generation, propagation, and run-up with a high-order Boussinesq model. Coast. Eng.
2009 ,56, 747–758. [CrossRef]
134. Fuhrman, D.R.; Baykal, C.; Sumer, B.M.; Jacobsen, N.G.; Fredsøe, J. Numerical simulation of wave-induced scour and backﬁlling
processes beneath submarine pipelines. Coast. Eng. 2014 ,94, 10–22. [CrossRef]
135. Larsen, B.E.; Arbøll, L.K.; Kristoffersen, S.F.; Carstensen, S.; Fuhrman, D.R. Experimental study of tsunami-induced scour around
a monopile foundation. Coast. Eng. 2018 ,138, 9–21. [CrossRef]
136. Larsen, B.E.; Fuhrman, D.R.; Baykal, C.; Sumer, B.M. Tsunami-induced scour around monopile foundations. Coast. Eng. 2017 ,
129, 36–49. [CrossRef]
137. Pokhrel, J.; Seo, J. Natural hazard vulnerability quantiﬁcation of offshore wind turbine in shallow water. Eng. Struct. 2019 ,
192, 254–263. [CrossRef]
138. Sánchez, S.; L ópez-Guti érrez, J.-S.; Negro, V .; Esteban, M.D. Foundations in offshore wind farms: Evolution, characteristics and
range of use. Analysis of main dimensional parameters in monopile foundations. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2019 ,7, 441. [CrossRef]
139. Foroughi, A.R.; Sleeman, W.; Scott, R. Offshore disasters: Wave forces on offshore and coastal structures due to Tsunamis. Disaster
Manag. Hum. Health Risk Reducing Risk Improv. Outcomes 2009 ,110, 251.
140. Amani, S.; Prabhakaran, A.; Bhattacharya, S. Design of monopiles for offshore and nearshore wind turbines in seismically
liqueﬁable soils: Methodology and validation. Soil Dyn. Earthq. Eng. 2022 ,157, 107252. [CrossRef]
141. Bhattacharya, S.; Biswal, S.; Aleem, M.; Amani, S.; Prabhakaran, A.; Prakhya, G.; Lombardi, D.; Mistry, H.K. Seismic design of
offshore wind turbine: Good, bad and unknowns. Energies 2021 ,14, 3496. [CrossRef]
142. James, M.; Haldar, S. Seismic vulnerability of jacket supported large offshore wind turbine considering multidirectional ground
motions. Structures 2022 ,43, 407–423. [CrossRef]
143. Hong, H.; Sheng, C. Reliability-based calibration of site-speciﬁc design typhoon wind and wave loads for wind turbine. Eng.
Struct. 2022 ,270, 114885. [CrossRef]
144. Bouchard, A.; Buguet, M.; Chan-Hon-Tong, A.; Dezert, J.; Lalande, P . Comparison of different forecasting tools for short-range
lightning strike risk assessment. Nat. Hazards 2022 , 1–37. [CrossRef]
145. Rachidi, F.; Rubinstein, M.; Montanya, J.; Bermudez, J.-L.; Sola, R.R.; Sola, G.; Korovkin, N. A review of current issues in lightning
protection of new-generation wind-turbine blades. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2008 ,55, 2489–2496. [CrossRef]
146. Zou, L.; Cheng, H. Research on wind turbine blade surface damage identiﬁcation based on improved convolution neural network.
Appl. Sci. 2022 ,12, 9338. [CrossRef]
147. Boopathi, K.; Mishnaevsky, L., Jr.; Sumantraa, B.; Premkumar, S.A.; Thamodharan, K.; Balaraman, K. Failure mechanisms of wind
turbine blades in India: Climatic, regional, and seasonal variability. Wind. Energy 2022 ,25, 968–979. [CrossRef]
148. March, V . Key issues to deﬁne a method of lightning risk assessment for wind farms. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2018 ,159, 50–57.
[CrossRef]
149. Matsui, T.; Yamamoto, K.; Ogata, J. Study on improvement of lightning damage detection model for wind turbine blade. Machines
2021 ,10, 9. [CrossRef]
150. Becerra, M.; Long, M.; Schulz, W.; Thottappillil, R. On the estimation of the lightning incidence to offshore wind farms. Electr.
Power Syst. Res. 2018 ,157, 211–226. [CrossRef]
151. Zalhaf, A.S.; Mansour, D.-E.A.; Han, Y.; Yang, P .; Darwish, M.M.F. Numerical and experimental analysis of the transient behavior
of wind turbines when two blades are simultaneously struck by lightning. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2021 ,71, 1–12. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
