Citation: Zhang, Z.; Wang, S.; Wang,
P .; Jiang, P .; Zhou, H. Research on
Fault Early Warning of Wind Turbine
Based on IPSO-DBN. Energies 2022 ,
15, 9072. https://doi.org/10.3390/
en15239072
Academic Editor: Davide Astolﬁ
Received: 11 November 2022
Accepted: 29 November 2022
Published: 30 November 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
energies
Article
Research on Fault Early Warning of Wind T urbine Based
on IPSO-DBN
Zhaoyan Zhang
 , Shaoke Wang, Peiguang Wang *
 , Ping Jiang and Hang Zhou
College of Electronic Information Engineering, Hebei University, Baoding 071002, China
*Correspondence: pgwang@hbu.edu.cn
Abstract: Aiming at the problem of wind turbine generator fault early warning, a wind turbine fault
early warning method based on nonlinear decreasing inertia weight and exponential change learning
factor particle swarm optimization is proposed to optimize the deep belief network (DBN). With
the data of wind farm supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) as input, the weights and
biases of the network are pre-trained layer by layer. Then the BP neural network is used to ﬁne-tune
the parameters of the whole network. The improved particle swarm optimization algorithm (IPSO)
is used to determine the number of neurons in the hidden layer of the model, pre-training learning
rate, reverse ﬁne-tuning learning rate, pre-training times and reverse ﬁne-tuning training times and
other parameters, and the DBN predictive regression model is established. The experimental results
show that the proposed model has better performance in accuracy, training time and nonlinear ﬁtting
ability than the DBN model and PSO-DBN model.
Keywords: wind turbine; deep belief network; improved particle swarm optimization algorithm;
wind power generator
1. Introduction
In recent years, the wind power industry has developed rapidly, and the installed scale
of wind power continues to expand [ 1–3]. According to the statistics of the global wind
energy council (GWEC), the total installed capacity of global wind power in 2020 is 743 GW,
among which China ranks ﬁrst in the world [ 4]. There are also great challenges behind the
rapid development of the wind power industry. With the increase of the running time of
wind turbines and the long-term working in the natural environment of changeable forces,
difﬁcult conditions and complex working conditions, the failure rate of main components
such as generator, gearbox, main bearing, yaw system and so on increased signiﬁcantly [ 5].
Generator failure is one of the main causes of wind turbine outage [ 6]. The use of accurate
detection technology for early fault early warning of generators can effectively reduce the
failure rate of wind turbines and increase the beneﬁts of wind farms.
Wind turbine is a system with strong internal correlation, the components inﬂuence
each other, and the fault types are varied [ 7,8]. At present, the fault early warning methods
of wind turbine mainly focus on the parameters such as temperature signal, acoustic
emission signal, vibration signal, electrical signal and so on [ 9]. In reference [ 10], the
generator temperature is modiﬁed by linear regression technology, and the generator
condition monitoring based on temperature signal is realized. In reference [ 11], the spatial
neighborhood coefﬁcient of data-driven threshold is used to avoid misdiagnosis caused
by strong noise, and on this basis, an empirical wavelet transform generator bearing fault
diagnosis method based on measured vibration signal is proposed. In reference [ 12], the
minimum entropy deconvolution method and envelope analysis method are combined
to realize the analysis and diagnosis of electric corrosion of generator bearings by using
vibration signals.
At present, with the great advantage of deep mining data abstract features and inherent
rules, the deep learning algorithm has made remarkable achievements in the ﬁelds of speech
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072. https://doi.org/10.3390/en15239072 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 2 of 18
recognition [ 13], image classiﬁcation [ 14] and target detection [ 15]. Because it can solve
the problem of insufﬁcient feature extraction ability of traditional diagnosis methods, deep
learning algorithm has been applied to the ﬁeld of fault diagnosis [ 16]. In reference [ 17],
an improved deep learning model which combines SAE and depth neural network is
proposed to realize the on-line condition monitoring of generator. In reference [ 18], the
early fault early warning of wind turbine gearbox is realized by using depth variational
self-coding network.
Wang and Liu [ 19] proposed a data-driven wind turbine condition monitoring method
based on a new multivariable state estimation technology (Multivariate State Estimation
Technique, MSET), which realizes the fault early warning of wavelet transform components.
Su et al. [ 20] proposed a wind turbine state modeling and fault identiﬁcation method based
on a combined model on the basis of BP neural network and nonlinear state estimation
method. Sun et al. [ 21] established a hidden Markov state monitoring model by using the
characteristic variables of the supercapacitor of the pitch control system.
To summarize, the current mainstream fault early warning methods usually have some
defects, such as low sensitivity and accuracy, small predictable time range, poor real-time
performance and so on. When selecting state variables, most machine learning methods
rely too much on expert experience and are highly subjective. Usually, the parameters
are independent of each other by default, but in practice, the parameters of the unit are
often related to each other, which leads to the introduction of some redundant or useless
quantities with the prediction object when determining the input parameters, which affects
the results.
In view of this, aiming at the problem of wind turbine fault early warning, an IPSO
-DBN wind turbine fault early warning method is proposed in this paper. Firstly, multiple
restricted Boltzmann machines (RBM) and one output layer are connected to form a depth
conﬁdence network. The unsupervised greedy layer-by-layer algorithm is used to pre-
train the weights and biases of the network to generate better network parameters, and
then the BP back propagation algorithm is used to ﬁne-tune the whole network. For the
problems that it is difﬁcult to determine the parameters such as the number of neurons in
the hidden layer of the DBN network, the pre-training learning rate, the reverse ﬁne-tuning
learning rate, the pre-training times and the reverse ﬁne-tuning training times, the IPSO
algorithm is used to optimize it intelligently. When the generator deviates from the normal
workspace, the reconstruction error sequence changes obviously and deviates seriously
from the original dynamic stable state, based on which the early fault detection of the
generator is realized.
2. Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm
2.1. Basic Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm
Particle swarm optimization (PSO) is an intelligent population optimization method
to ﬁnd the global optimal solution [ 22]. At present, it has been widely used in intelligent
control [ 23], path planning [ 24], neural network training [ 25], image processing [ 26], feature
selection [ 27] and other ﬁelds [ 28]. PSO randomly generates a batch of particles in the
search space, which have no volume and mass, only position and speed, and update their
positions according to their own memory and the information of other particles in the
group. Through the competition and cooperation between particles, we continue to move
closer to the historical optimal position of individuals and populations, so as to achieve the
purpose of ﬁnding the optimal solution in the complex solution space. The velocity and
position update formula of the particle is shown as follows [19].
(
vk+1
id=wvk
id+c1r1(pid xk
id) +c2r2(pgd xk
id)
xk+1
id=xk
id+vk+1
id(1)
where vk
idis the optimal solutions of the d-dimensional speed of the iparticle in the k-th
iteration. xk
idis the optimal solutions of the d-dimensional position of the iparticle in the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 3 of 18
k-th iteration. pidis the optimal solutions of the d-dimensional individual of the iparticle in
thek-th iteration. pgdis the optimal solutions of the d-dimensional population history of the
iparticle in the k-th iteration. vk+1
idand xk+1
idare the speed and position of the d-dimensional
of the i-particle in the k+ 1 iteration, respectively. wis the inertia weight. c1and c2are
the individual learning factor and population learning factor, respectively. r1and r2are a
random number in the interval [0, 1].
2.2. Improved Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm
When ﬁnding the global optimal solution of general problems, the basic PSO algorithm
has a good performance, but for complex high-dimensional optimal problems, it is easy
to fall into local convergence, premature convergence or even non-convergence [ 29–31].
In order to solve these problems, an improved particle swarm optimization algorithm
with nonlinear decreasing inertia weight and exponential learning factor is proposed
in this paper.
Inertia weight wis a very important parameter in PSO, which controls the local and
global optimization ability of PSO, and determines the optimization effect of the algorithm
to a great extent. When wis large, the global optimization ability is strong, the local
optimization ability is weak, and the convergence speed is fast; when wis small, it is just the
opposite. Therefore, in order to ensure the global optimization of the population with larger
inertia weights in the early stage of the iteration, the refined optimization is realized with
smaller inertia weights at the end of the iteration, and the nonlinear inertia weight strategy
and control factors are introduced, and the inertia weights are shown in Equation (2).
w(t) =wmax wminr
1+
Kt
T+wmin (2)
where w(t) is the inertia weight of the titeration. wmaxandwminare the maximum and
minimum inertia weights, respectively. Tis the maximum number of iterations. Kis the
weight control factor.
Learning factor is also an important parameter in PSO. The larger the individual
learning factor, the stronger the global search ability; the smaller the individual learning
factor, the stronger the local search ability; and the population learning factor has the
opposite attribute. At the beginning of the iteration, the individual learning factor should
be larger and the population learning factor should be smaller; with the continuous increase
of the number of iterations, the individual learning factor of particles gradually decreases
and the group learning factor increases gradually. The use of exponential learning factors
can well meet this requirement, and the updated formula is shown in Equation (3).
(
c1=c1min+ (c1max c1min)e 20(t
T)6
c2=c2max (c2max c2min)e 20(t
T)6 (3)
where c1minand c 2minare the minimum of individual learning factor and population
learning factor, respectively. c1maxand c2maxare the maximum of individual learning factor
and population learning factor, respectively.
Four performance test functions such as Rastrigin, Griewank, Acklet and Rosenbrock
are used to analyze and verify the performance of IPSO, and compared with the basic PSO.
The maximum number of iterations Tis set to 300, and other parameters are shown in
Table 1.
The optimal convergence ability of PSO and IPSO in the four performance test func-
tions is shown in Figure 1. The value of x-coordinate is the number of iterations, and the
value of y-coordinate is the ﬁtness value (the average of 20 calculations).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 4 of 18
Table 1. PSO and IPSO parameter setting.
Arithmetic Population Size (N) Dimension (D) w c1 c2
PSO 100 30 0.8 2.0 2.0
IPSO 100 30 0.9~0.4 2.5~0.5 0.5~2.5
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  4 of 19  
 Four performance test functions such as Rastrigin, Griewank, Acklet and 
Rosenbrock are used to analyze and verify the performance of IPSO, and compared with 
the basic PS O. The maximum number of iterations T is set to 300, and other parameters 
are shown in Table 1.  
Table 1. PSO and IPSO parameter setting.  
Arithmetic  Population 
Size  (N) Dimension  
(D) ω c1 c2 
PSO  100 30 0.8 2.0 2.0 
IPSO  100 30 0.9~0.4  2.5~0.5  0.5~2.5  
The optimal convergence ability of PSO and IPSO in the four performance test 
functions  is shown in Figure 1. The value of x-coordinate is the number of iterations, and 
the value of y-coordinate is the fitness value (the average of 20 calculations).  
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Number of iteration050100150200250300350400Average fitness valuePSO
IPSO
 
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Number of iteration0100200300400500600Average fitness valuePSO
IPSO  
(a) (b) 
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Number of iteration-22.3-22.2-22.1-22-21.9-21.8-21.7-21.6-21.5Average fitness valuePSO
IPSO
 
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Number of iteration010002000300040005000600070008000 Average fitness valuePSO
IPSO  
(c) (d) 
Figure 1. PSO and IPSO optimization results. ( a) Fitness value under Rastrigin test function. ( b) 
Fitness value under Griewank test function. ( c) Fitness value under Acklet test function. ( d) Fitness 
value under Rosenbrock test function.  
As can be seen from Figure 1, compared with PSO, IPSO has faster convergence 
speed, higher accuracy and better sta bility.  
3. Deep Belief Network  
The deep belief  network proposed by Geoffrey Hinton et al. [32] overcomes the 
problems of traditional neural network, such as low training efficiency, lack of small 
sample processing ability, easy to fall into local optimal solution and so on. The structure 
of the DBN ne twork is shown in Figure 2.  DBN is a deep Bayesian probability generation 
Figure 1. PSO and IPSO optimization results. ( a) Fitness value under Rastrigin test function.
(b) Fitness value under Griewank test function. ( c) Fitness value under Acklet test function.
(d) Fitness value under Rosenbrock test function.
As can be seen from Figure 1, compared with PSO, IPSO has faster convergence speed,
higher accuracy and better stability.
3. Deep Belief Network
The deep belief network proposed by Geoffrey Hinton et al. [ 32] overcomes the
problems of traditional neural network, such as low training efﬁciency, lack of small sample
processing ability, easy to fall into local optimal solution and so on. The structure of the
DBN network is shown in Figure 2. DBN is a deep Bayesian probability generation model
composed of the input layer, multiple RBM and output layer [ 33]. The training process
of the DBN model includes two parts: pre-training and parameter tuning [ 34]. First of
all, the RBM is pre-trained layer by layer by unsupervised greed to generate better initial
network parameters. Then the BP neural network is used to reverse ﬁne-tune the network
parameters to make the model optimal.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 5 of 18
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  5 of 19  
 model composed of the input layer,  multiple RBM and output layer [33]. The training 
process of the DBN model includes two parts: pre -training and parameter tuning [34]. 
First of all,  the RBM is pre -trained layer by layer by unsupervised greed to generate 
better initial network parameters . Then the BP neural network is used to reverse 
fine-tune the network parameters to make the model optimal.  
...............
......
...
n-tier RBMOutput layer
Input layerReverse trimmingLayer -by-layer training
Input data  xReconstruct output  x  ^
 
Figure 2. DBN  network structure.  
3.1. Pre-Training of the DBN Model  
The pre -training of the DBN model uses the CD -k algorithm to train the weights and 
biases of each RBM in the network layer by layer unsupervised [35]. RBM basic  structure 
is shown in Figure 3.  RBM consists of a visible layer and a hidden layer . There is no  
connection within the layer, and no full connection between layers [36] . 
...
...b1 b2 b3 b4 bm
a1 a2 a3 an
v1 v2 v3 vnh1 h2 h3 h4 hm
Wnm
 
Figure 3. RBM basic structure.  
RBM is an energy -based model. When the energy is minimum and the network 
reaches the best state, the construction of the n etwork is actually the process of 
minimizing the energy function [37]. The definition of RBM energy function is shown in 
Equation (4). 
1 1 1 1( , )n m n m
i i j j i ij j
i j i jE v h b v c h v w h
= = = == − − −  
 (4) 
where  θ = {wij, bi, cj}. vi is the i neuron state of the visible layer . hj is the j neuron state of the 
hidden layer . wij is the connection weight between the i neuron of the visible layer and the 
Figure 2. DBN network structure.
3.1. Pre-Training of the DBN Model
The pre-training of the DBN model uses the CD-k algorithm to train the weights and
biases of each RBM in the network layer by layer unsupervised [ 35]. RBM basic structure
is shown in Figure 3. RBM consists of a visible layer and a hidden layer. There is no
connection within the layer, and no full connection between layers [36].
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  5 of 19  
 model composed of the input layer,  multiple RBM and output layer [33]. The training 
process of the DBN model includes two parts: pre -training and parameter tuning [34]. 
First of all,  the RBM is pre -trained layer by layer by unsupervised greed to generate 
better initial network parameters . Then the BP neural network is used to reverse 
fine-tune the network parameters to make the model optimal.  
...............
......
...
n-tier RBMOutput layer
Input layerReverse trimmingLayer -by-layer training
Input data  xReconstruct output  x  ^
 
Figure 2. DBN  network structure.  
3.1. Pre-Training of the DBN Model  
The pre -training of the DBN model uses the CD -k algorithm to train the weights and 
biases of each RBM in the network layer by layer unsupervised [35]. RBM basic  structure 
is shown in Figure 3.  RBM consists of a visible layer and a hidden layer . There is no  
connection within the layer, and no full connection between layers [36] . 
...
...b1 b2 b3 b4 bm
a1 a2 a3 an
v1 v2 v3 vnh1 h2 h3 h4 hm
Wnm
 
Figure 3. RBM basic structure.  
RBM is an energy -based model. When the energy is minimum and the network 
reaches the best state, the construction of the n etwork is actually the process of 
minimizing the energy function [37]. The definition of RBM energy function is shown in 
Equation (4). 
1 1 1 1( , )n m n m
i i j j i ij j
i j i jE v h b v c h v w h
= = = == − − −  
 (4) 
where  θ = {wij, bi, cj}. vi is the i neuron state of the visible layer . hj is the j neuron state of the 
hidden layer . wij is the connection weight between the i neuron of the visible layer and the 
Figure 3. RBM basic structure.
RBM is an energy-based model. When the energy is minimum and the network
reaches the best state, the construction of the network is actually the process of minimizing
the energy function [37]. The deﬁnition of RBM energy function is shown in Equation (4).
Eq(v,h) = n
å
i=1bivi m
å
j=1cjhj n
å
i=1m
å
j=1viwijhj (4)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 6 of 18
where q= {wij,bi,cj}.viis the ineuron state of the visible layer. hjis the jneuron state of the
hidden layer. wijis the connection weight between the ineuron of the visible layer and the
jneuron of the hidden layer. biis the offset of the ineuron of the visible layer. cjis the bias
of the jneuron of the hidden layer.
The state of neurons in the RBM network can be described by statistical probability.
According to Equation (4), the joint probability distribution of state ( v,h) can be obtained,
as shown in Equation (5).
Pq(v,h) =1
Zqe Eq(v,h)(5)
where Zqis the distribution function, as shown in Equation (6).
Zq=å
v,he Eq(v,h)(6)
Visible layer element distribution Pq(v) is the key to solve practical engineering prob-
lems, which corresponds to the edge distribution of Pq(v,h). The speciﬁc deﬁnition is shown
in Equation (7).
Pq(v) =å
he Eq(v,h)
å
v,he Eq(v,h)(7)
Similar probability distributions with hidden layers:
Pq(h) =å
ve Eq(v,h)
å
v,he Eq(v,h)(8)
In order to make the distribution under the RBM representation ﬁt the original sample
distribution as much as possible, the K-L distance in the information theory is introduced.
The smaller the K-L distance, the better the ﬁtting effect, so the real edge distribution can
be transformed into the maximum likelihood estimation of some approximate distribution.
In the RBM model, the likelihood function can be expressed as:
lnL(q) =lnÕ
vPq(v) =å
vlnPq(v) (9)
To require maximum likelihood, we need to derive the likelihood function.
¶lnPq(v)
¶q=¶lnå
he Eq(v,h)
¶q ¶lnå
v,he Eq(v,h)
¶q
=1
å
he Eq(v,h)¶å
he Eq(v,h)
¶q 1
å
v,he Eq(v,h)¶å
v,he Eq(v,h)
¶q
=å
he Eq(v,h)( ¶Eq(v,h)
¶q)
å
he Eq(v,h) å
v,he Eq(v,h)( ¶Eq(v,h)
¶q)
å
v,he Eq(v,h)(10)
Bringing in the expressions of P(v,h) and P(h|v), Equation (11) is obtained:
¶lnPq(v)
¶q=å
h(Pq(hjv)( ¶Eq(v,h)
¶q)) å
v,h(Pq(v,h)( ¶Eq(v,h)
¶q))
=EPq(hjv)( ¶Eq(v,h)
¶q) EPq(v,h)( ¶Eq(v,h)
¶q)(11)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 7 of 18
Replacing qwith w,b,cto derive respectively, and bringing into the E(v,h) expression,
we can obtain:
¶lnPq(v)
¶wij=Pq(hi=1jv)vj å
vPq(v)Pq(hj=1v)vj (12)
¶lnPq(v)
¶bi=vi å
vPq(v)vi (13)
¶lnPq(v)
¶ci=Pq(hi=1jv) å
vPq(v)Pq(hi=1jv) (14)
Because there is no connection between RBM layers, the activation functions of RBM
visible layer neurons and hidden layer neurons can be expressed as follows:
Pq(vi=1jh) = f(bi+n
å
i=1wj,ivi) (15)
Pq(hj=1jv) = f(cj+m
å
j=1wi,jhj) (16)
f(x) =1
1+ex(17)
where f(x) is the activation function.
The RBM parameters are updated by the CD-k algorithm, and the update criterion of
q= {wij,bi,cj} can be obtained by combining the neuron activation functions of visible layer
and hidden layer, as shown in Equation (18).
8
>>><
>>>:wk+1
ij=wk
ij+#n
vihj
Pq(hjv) 
vihj
recono
bk+1
i=bk
i+#n
hviiPq(hjv) hviirecono
ck+1
j=ck
j+#n
hj
Pq(hjv) 
hj
recono(18)
where #is the learning rate. hiPq(h|v)is the expectation of the partial derivative under
thePq(h|v) distribution.hirecon is the expectation of the partial derivative under the
reconstructed model distribution.
3.2. Fine Tuning of the DBN Model
After the unsupervised layer-by-layer training of the DBN network using the contrast
divergence algorithm, a better initial weight and bias of the model are obtained. Because
the RBM of each layer is trained separately, it can only ensure that the feature extraction
of the RBM visible layer of each RBM output layer is optimal but cannot guarantee the
optimal feature vector mapping of the whole DBN network. Therefore, it is necessary to
use the BP back propagation algorithm to ﬁne-tune the error between the output and input
of the network from top to bottom to further optimize the weights and biases of the DBN
network to optimize the parameters of the whole DBN.
4. Fault Early Warning Method of Wind T urbine Generator Based on IPSO-DBN
The fault early warning process of wind turbine generator based on IPSO-DBN is
shown in Figure 4. As can be seen from Figure 4, it is mainly divided into: data input
processing module, IPSO training module and IPSO-DBN fault early warning module.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 8 of 18
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 19  
 
IPSO training
Initialize the IPSO parameter and determine the 
velocity extremum and position boundary of 
each particle
DBN pre -training for each particle
BP algorithm reverse fine -tuning DBN network 
parameters
Calculate the fitness value and compare
According to the fitness value , the individual 
extreme value and group extreme value are 
calculated
Update the speed and position of each particle
Whether the number of iterations has 
been reached
End of IPSOIPSO -DBN fault early warning
Using the optimal value obtained by IPSO to 
optimize the parameters of DBN network
The input variables are reconstructed using 
the trained IPSO -DBN model , and the 
reconstruction error is calculated
Calculation and reconstruction errorTraining DBN Network with optimal 
parametersStart
Collecting SCADA data of 
wind turbine
Data preprocessing
DBN network initializationDivide the data into 
training set and test set
End of data processingSelect the input variables of 
the model
YNWhether the threshold is exceeded
The generator is 
running normallyAbnormal 
operation state of 
generator
EndN Y 
Figure 4. Forecasting results between before and after rough set correction.  
4.1. Selection and Preprocessing of State Parameters  
In order to establish the wind turbine generator fault early warning model, it is 
necessary to reasonably select the SCADA variable as the input of the model . The 
generator state parameters selected in this paper are shown in Table 2.  
Table 2. Description of generator condition variables.  
Variable Name  Numerical Value  Unit  
Wind speed  vo m/s 
Generator power  P kW 
Generator speed  Ω r/min  
Generator torque  Tt N· m  
Air cooling temperature of generator  Tai °C 
Temperature of generator front axle A Tba °C 
Temperature of generator front axle B Tbb °C 
Generator winding u1 temperature  Tu1 °C 
Generator winding v1 temperature  Tv1 °C 
Generator  winding w1 temperature  Tw1 °C 
Side temperature of spindle impeller  Tssi °C 
During the model  training, the SCADA data parameters in Table 2 generated by the 
wind turbine generator in a certain time range are used as training samples to train the 
DBN network. The input vector x can be expressed as:  
Figure 4. Forecasting results between before and after rough set correction.
4.1. Selection and Preprocessing of State Parameters
In order to establish the wind turbine generator fault early warning model, it is
necessary to reasonably select the SCADA variable as the input of the model. The generator
state parameters selected in this paper are shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Description of generator condition variables.
Variable Name Numerical Value Unit
Wind speed v o m/s
Generator power P kW
Generator speed W r/min
Generator torque Tt Nm
Air cooling temperature of generator TaiC
Temperature of generator front axle A TbaC
Temperature of generator front axle B TbbC
Generator winding u1 temperature Tu1C
Generator winding v1 temperature Tv1C
Generator winding w1 temperature Tw1C
Side temperature of spindle impeller TssiC
During the model training, the SCADA data parameters in Table 2 generated by the
wind turbine generator in a certain time range are used as training samples to train the
DBN network. The input vector x can be expressed as:
x= [vo,P,W,Tt,Tai,Tba,Tbb,Tu1,Tv1,Tw1,Tssi] (19)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 9 of 18
Data pre-processing is a very important step in the process of fault early warning mod-
eling, which mainly includes two parts: elimination of outliers and data normalization. In
order to eliminate the inﬂuence of attributes and dimensions between different parameters
of SCADA data, the data are normalized by Formula (20).
x
i=xi xmin
xmax xmin(20)
where xiand x
iare the data before and after normalization. xmaxand xminare the maximum
and minimum value of the original data, respectively.
4.2. Fitness Function
When using the IPSO algorithm to optimize the DBN parameters globally , the Equation (21)
is taken as the fitness function.
ff itness =1
nn
å
i=1m
å
j=1(ˆxij xij)2(21)
where nis the number of data samples. mis the dimension of each piece of data. xijand
ˆxijare the j-dimensional data of the ioriginal sample and the j-dimensional data of the i
reconstructed sample, respectively.
4.3. Reconstruction Error
In the normal working state, the SCADA data of the wind turbine maintain relatively
stable internal characteristic rules, and the reconstruction error Reis relatively stable; when
the generator deviates from the normal workspace, the internal characteristic rules of SCADA
data change, the DBN model constructed by the normal state data does not match with
the current state, and the Re trend changes obviously. Therefore, Re can be selected as the
generator condition detection index. The Re calculation method is shown in Equation (22).
Re=kˆx xk2(22)
where ˆxand xare the reconstructed data vector and the original data vector respectively.
4.4. Reconstruction Error Threshold
 Fixed threshold
The fault of the wind turbine generator is judged by the reconstruction error threshold.
The 3 sprinciple is introduced to set the threshold and calculate the mean value and root
mean square error of Re.8
>>><
>>>:m=1
NN
å
i=1Re(i)
s=s
1
N 1N
å
i=1(Re(i) m)2(23)
where Re(i) is the ireconstruction error. mandsare the mean and root mean square errors
ofRe, respectively. Nis the length of Re, that is, the number of reconstruction errors.
According to the 3 principle, the reconstruction error threshold Uthis set to:
Uth=m+3s (24)
If the reconstruction error does not exceed the threshold, the running state of the
generator is normal. If the reconstruction error exceeds the threshold, the running state
of the generator is abnormal, and the fault early warning information is issued at the
same time.
 Adaptive threshold based on sliding window
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 10 of 18
In addition to the operation status of wind turbines, wind speed is also an important
reason that affects the variation of SCADA parameters. Sometimes, even if the operation
status of wind turbines is kept within the normal workspace, the trend of reconﬁguration
error will have a great sudden change due to the change of wind speed. At this time, if a
constant threshold is set, some poles may exceed the threshold, thus misjudging the status
of the unit. Therefore, in order to prevent the disadvantages caused by the ﬁxed threshold,
on the basis of the ﬁxed threshold, the adaptive threshold based on sliding window is
introduced as the condition to judge the occurrence of wind turbine failure.
Suppose that within a certain period of time, the reconstruction error order of some
part of the unit is { Re(0),Re(1),,Re(N),,}. For this sequence, take a sliding window
with N width, as shown in Figure 5. First, the mean and standard deviation of continuous
N reconstruction error sequences in the window are calculated by using the Formula (23),
and then the ﬁrst ﬁxed threshold is calculated according to the Formula (24), which is used
as the threshold of the initial reconstruction error. Starting from the position of the ﬁrst
sliding window, the thresholds of subsequent reconstruction errors are obtained according
to the same method, and these thresholds are concatenated to form an adaptive threshold
based on sliding window.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  10 of 19  
 the generator is abnormal, and the fault early warning information is issued at the same 
time.  
• Adaptive threshold based on sliding window  
In addition to the operation status of wind tur bines, wind speed is also an important 
reason that affects the variation of SCADA parameters. Sometimes, even if the operation 
status of wind turbines is kept within the normal workspace, the trend of reconfiguration  
error will have a great sudden change d ue to the change of wind speed. At this time, if a 
constant threshold is set, some poles may exceed the threshold, thus misjudging the 
status of the unit. Therefore, in order to prevent the disadvantages caused by the fixed 
threshold, on the basis of the f ixed threshold, the adaptive threshold based on sliding 
window is introduced as the condition to judge the occurrence of wind turbine failure.  
Suppose that within a certain period of time, the reconstruction error order of some 
part of the unit is { Re(0), Re(1), ···, Re(N), · · · ,}. For this sequence , take a sliding window with 
N width, as shown in Figure 5.  First, the mean and standard deviation of continuous N 
reconstruction error sequences in the window are calculated by using the Formula (2 3), 
and then the f irst fixed threshold is calculated according to the Formula ( 24), which is 
used as the threshold of the initial reconstruction error. Starting from the position of the 
first sliding window, the thresholds of subsequent reconstruction errors are obtained 
according to the same method, and these thresholds are concatenated to form an 
adaptive threshold based on sliding window.  
Window 2Window 3
Window 1
0 1 2 3 N N+1 N+2    Reconstruction error window
      
Reconstruction error sequence
 
Figure 5. Reconstruction error sliding window.  
4.5. Evaluation Index  
The root mean square error ( RMSE ), the mean absolute error ( MAE ) and the mean 
absolute percent error ( MAPE ) of the reconstruction error  are calculated respectively to 
quantitatively analyze  the model, and the performance of different models is compared. 
The calculation method is as follows:  
2
111ˆ()nm
ij ij
ijRMSE x xn===−
 (25) 
111ˆ||nm
ij ij
ijMAE x xn===−
 (26) 
Figure 5. Reconstruction error sliding window.
4.5. Evaluation Index
The root mean square error ( RMSE ), the mean absolute error ( MAE ) and the mean
absolute percent error ( MAPE ) of the reconstruction error are calculated respectively to
quantitatively analyze the model, and the performance of different models is compared.
The calculation method is as follows:
RMSE =vuut1
nn
å
i=1m
å
j=1(ˆxij xij)2 (25)
MAE =1
nn
å
i=1m
å
j=1ˆxij xij (26)
MAPE =1
nn
å
i=1m
å
j=1ˆxij xij
ˆxij(27)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 11 of 18
where nand mare the number and dimension of data samples respectively. xijis the
j-th dimensional data of the ioriginal sample. ˆxijis the j-th dimensional data of the i
reconstructed sample.
The smaller the value of the above three quantitative evaluation indicators, the
higher the accuracy of the model reconstruction of the original data, and the better the
network performance.
5. Example Analysis
5.1. Modeling Data Statement
This paper takes the E15 wind turbine generator in a wind farm as the research object
and uses the SCADA data from 00:00 on 23 December 2018 to 23:50 on 23 April 2019, as
the data source to carry on the wind turbine fault early warning analysis. The data source
contains 69 kinds and 17,567 pieces of information-rich 10-min sampling frequency data.
5.2. Model Parameter Setting
The IPSO-DBN model consists of four hidden layers, the optimization interval of the
number of neurons in the hidden layer is [1, 100]. The optimization interval of learning rate
is [0, 0.1], and the optimization interval of training times is [1, 500], pre-training 100 data
per batch and reverse ﬁne-tuning 4 data per batch. The initial parameters of IPSO are as
follows: the population size is 20, wmin= 0.45, wmax= 0.95, cmin= 0.45, cmax= 0.95. The
maximum number of iterations is 40, and the weight control factor is 8. The optimization
results are shown in Table 3.
Table 3. IPSO optimization results.
Parameters Numerical Value
The number of neurons in the ﬁrst hidden layer 65
The number of neurons in the second hidden layer 68
The number of neurons in the third hidden layer 21
The number of neurons in the fourth hidden layer 98
Pre-training learning rate 0.0185
Reverse ﬁne-tuning learning rate 0.0456
Number of pre-training 27
Number of reverse ﬁne-tuning 431
5.3. Early Warning Analysis of Generator Fault
5.3.1. Comparison of Learning Effects of Different Models
The comparison results of evaluation indicators of different models are shown in
Table 4.
Table 4. Hidden layer neuron selection results.
Model RMSE MAE MAPE
DBN 0.1256 0.2638 8.0291
PSO-DBN 0.0807 0.1685 16.0129
IPSO-DBN 0.0623 0.1315 4.9700
It can be seen from Table 4 that the IPSO-DBN wind turbine fault early warning model
proposed in this paper has the best performance in RMSE, MAE and MAPE, compared
with the DBN and PSO-DBN models.
The learning effect of the three models is shown in Figure 6.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 12 of 18
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  12 of 19  
 It can be seen from Table 4 that the IPSO -DBN wind turbine fault early warning 
model proposed in this paper has the best performance in RMSE , MAE and MAPE,  
compared with the DBN and PSO -DBN models.  
The learning effect  of the three models is shown in Figure  6. 
 
Figure 6. Reconstruction error results of different models.  
From Figure 6, the reconstruction error sequence of the IPSO -DBN model is the 
smallest, followed by the PSO -DBN model, and the reconstruction  error of the DBN 
model is the largest. To sum up, the IPSO -DBN model proposed in this paper has 
stronger nonlinear  fitting ability, stronger robustness and higher accuracy, and is more 
suitable for early fault early warning of wind turbines.  
5.3.2. Early Warning Model Testing under Normal Condition  
The first 9100 groups of data of the data sample are selected as the t raining set. 
Under the normal operation state of the wind turbine, the reconstruction error sequence 
of the generator operation data is shown in Figure 7, and the red line in the figure is the 
early warning threshold. Figure 7a is a fixed threshold, and Figure 7b is an adaptive 
threshold based on the principle of sliding window. In this paper, the length of sliding 
window is set to 300.  
As can be seen from Figure  7b, under normal operating conditions, because the 
wind speed is always fluctuating, there are fluctuations and a few extreme points in the 
generator reconstruction error, but it is always within the threshold range . Based on the 
sliding window method, the threshold changes with the change of reconstruction error, 
and the threshold accuracy and effe ctiveness are higher.  
  
Figure 6. Reconstruction error results of different models.
From Figure 6, the reconstruction error sequence of the IPSO-DBN model is the
smallest, followed by the PSO-DBN model, and the reconstruction error of the DBN model
is the largest. To sum up, the IPSO-DBN model proposed in this paper has stronger
nonlinear ﬁtting ability, stronger robustness and higher accuracy, and is more suitable for
early fault early warning of wind turbines.
5.3.2. Early Warning Model Testing under Normal Condition
The ﬁrst 9100 groups of data of the data sample are selected as the training set. Under
the normal operation state of the wind turbine, the reconstruction error sequence of the
generator operation data is shown in Figure 7, and the red line in the ﬁgure is the early
warning threshold. Figure 7a is a ﬁxed threshold, and Figure 7b is an adaptive threshold
based on the principle of sliding window. In this paper, the length of sliding window is
set to 300.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  13 of 19  
 
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000 10,000
Time series-0.100.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8Reconstruction errorReconstruction error
Early warning threshold 
(a) 
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000 10,000-0.100.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8
Reconstruction error
Early warning threshold
Time seriesReconstruction error
 
(b) 
Figure 7. Training set reconstruction error . (a) Fixed threshold . (b) Adaptive threshold based on 
sliding window.  
5.3.3. Early Warning Model Testing in Fault State  
The fault samples of the generator in the data source are input into the trained 
IPSO -DBN fault early warning model, the reconstruction value is the output and the 
reconstruction error is calculated, and the trend change diagram of the reconstruction  
error sequence is obtained. Then the above fixed threshold and adaptive threshold based 
on sliding window are used to verify and analyze the fault early warning function of the 
model. Finally, the trend of residual sequence of generator related variables is analyzed 
to judge the possible fault types of generator.  
The following 3908 data samples of the training data set are inputted into the 
IPSO -DBN model, and the calculated reconstruction  error sequence is shown in Figure 8 . 
Figure 8a adopts a fixed early  warning threshold and Figure 8b adopts an adaptive 
threshold based on sliding window.  In the state of generator failure, the fixed threshold is 
set to 0.223, and the sliding window length of the adaptive threshold is set to 300.  
It can be seen from Figure 8 that the reconstruction error sequence dynamically 
changes within the early warning threshold for a period of time before the fault occurs 
(about 3000 points), which proves that the generator does not deviate from the normal 
workspace during this period of time. On the other hand, the reconstruction error 
exceeds the early warning threshold at the ➀ point of Figure 8a and the X point of Figure 
8b (which corresponds to the data sample point 3129 in the state of generator failure) , 
and the fault early warning is triggered.  
  
Figure 7. Training set reconstruction error. ( a) Fixed threshold. ( b) Adaptive threshold based on
sliding window.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 13 of 18
As can be seen from Figure 7b, under normal operating conditions, because the wind
speed is always ﬂuctuating, there are ﬂuctuations and a few extreme points in the generator
reconstruction error, but it is always within the threshold range. Based on the sliding
window method, the threshold changes with the change of reconstruction error, and the
threshold accuracy and effectiveness are higher.
5.3.3. Early Warning Model Testing in Fault State
The fault samples of the generator in the data source are input into the trained IPSO-
DBN fault early warning model, the reconstruction value is the output and the recon-
struction error is calculated, and the trend change diagram of the reconstruction error
sequence is obtained. Then the above ﬁxed threshold and adaptive threshold based on
sliding window are used to verify and analyze the fault early warning function of the
model. Finally, the trend of residual sequence of generator related variables is analyzed to
judge the possible fault types of generator.
The following 3908 data samples of the training data set are inputted into the IPSO-
DBN model, and the calculated reconstruction error sequence is shown in Figure 8. Figure 8a
adopts a ﬁxed early warning threshold and Figure 8b adopts an adaptive threshold based
on sliding window. In the state of generator failure, the ﬁxed threshold is set to 0.223, and
the sliding window length of the adaptive threshold is set to 300.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  14 of 19  
 
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
Time series-0.100.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8
Reconstruction error
Early warning thresholdReconstruction error
j
  
(a) 
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
Time series-0.100.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8Reconstruction errorReconstruction error
Early warning threshold
X
 
(b) 
Figure 8. Validation set reconstruction error. (a) Variation trend of residual wind speed. ( b) Change 
trend of power residual.  
Combined with the change of reconstruction error sequence of generator variables , 
the fault early warning of generator is realized by setting the strategy of fixed threshold 
and adaptive threshold  in this paper . The sampling period of SCADA data used in thi s 
paper is too long to detect the slow change of generator -related variables, which leads to 
a sudden and dramatic reconstruction error exceeding the early warning threshold in 
Figure 8 . Thi s problem can be overcome by increasing the adoption period. For t he 
SCADA system in wind turbine field, the data sampling period can usually reach 
seconds, when it can be observed that the reconstruction error rises slowly some time 
before the fault occurs, and then exceeds the set threshold before causing a serious fau lt 
to achieve the purpose of detecting the potential fault of the wind turbine.  
5.3.4. Residual Analysis of Each Variable  
According to the change of the trend of the reconstruction error sequence and the set 
early warning threshold, the fault can be predic ted, so that the staff can check the hidden 
trouble in time and prevent the fault from getting worse. In order to determine  the 
specific fault location as soon as possible and improve the maintenance efficiency, the 
residual trend chart can be used to anal yze the SCADA parameters of each component of 
the wind turbine to realize the preliminary judgment of the fault type and fault location. 
The trend of wind speed residual series and active power residual series in the event of 
wind turbine generator failure  is shown in Figure 9.  
  
Figure 8. Validation set reconstruction error. ( a) Variation trend of residual wind speed. ( b) Change
trend of power residual.
It can be seen from Figure 8 that the reconstruction error sequence dynamically
changes within the early warning threshold for a period of time before the fault occurs
(about 3000 points), which proves that the generator does not deviate from the normal
workspace during this period of time. On the other hand, the reconstruction error exceeds
the early warning threshold at the 1point of Figure 8a and the X point of Figure 8b (which
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 14 of 18
corresponds to the data sample point 3129 in the state of generator failure), and the fault
early warning is triggered.
Combined with the change of reconstruction error sequence of generator variables,
the fault early warning of generator is realized by setting the strategy of ﬁxed threshold
and adaptive threshold in this paper. The sampling period of SCADA data used in this
paper is too long to detect the slow change of generator-related variables, which leads
to a sudden and dramatic reconstruction error exceeding the early warning threshold in
Figure 8. This problem can be overcome by increasing the adoption period. For the SCADA
system in wind turbine ﬁeld, the data sampling period can usually reach seconds, when it
can be observed that the reconstruction error rises slowly some time before the fault occurs,
and then exceeds the set threshold before causing a serious fault to achieve the purpose of
detecting the potential fault of the wind turbine.
5.3.4. Residual Analysis of Each Variable
According to the change of the trend of the reconstruction error sequence and the set
early warning threshold, the fault can be predicted, so that the staff can check the hidden
trouble in time and prevent the fault from getting worse. In order to determine the speciﬁc
fault location as soon as possible and improve the maintenance efﬁciency, the residual
trend chart can be used to analyze the SCADA parameters of each component of the wind
turbine to realize the preliminary judgment of the fault type and fault location. The trend
of wind speed residual series and active power residual series in the event of wind turbine
generator failure is shown in Figure 9.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  15 of 19  
 
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
Time series-0.5-0.4-0.3-0.2-0.100.10.20.30.40.5Residual errorWind speed residual 
(a) 
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
Time series-0.5-0.4-0.3-0.2-0.100.10.20.30.40.5Residual errorPower residual error
 
(b) 
Figure 9. Test set reconstruction error. (a) Fixed threshold. ( b) Adaptive threshold based on sliding 
window.  
As can be seen from Figure 9, the wind speed and power residual series of wind 
turbines always fluctuate slightly around zero in the early stage, and only fluctuate in a 
slightly larger range in the later stage . On the whole, the fluctuation of their residuals is 
always within the normal range, and the l arger changes in the later period must have 
been affected by other  variables. Basically, it can be judged that the wind speed is always 
in a steady change for a period of time before and after the generator failure. Therefore, 
the generator failure caused by the natural environment can be ruled out.  There  is a fault 
caused by the generator itself or by long -term operation.  
The temperature residual change trend of generator stator winding u1, v1, w1 and 
bearing temperature is shown in Figure 10.  
It can be se en from Figure 10 a that the trend of temperature residual of generator 
stator winding is not obviously abnormal, so the possibility  of failure of generator coil 
winding can also be ruled out.  From Figure 10b, it can be seen that  the residual sequence 
of ge nerator bearing temperature a (that is, generator front shaft) deviates obviously and 
changes sharply, which proves the previous conjecture from the positive side. This is due 
to the long sampling period and no slow temperature change process. Combined wit h 
the fault records of the SCADA system, the report shows that the generator has the front 
axle overheating. It is proved that the model proposed in this paper is effective for wind 
turbine fault early warning.  
  
Figure 9. Test set reconstruction error. ( a) Fixed threshold. ( b) Adaptive threshold based on
sliding window.
As can be seen from Figure 9, the wind speed and power residual series of wind
turbines always ﬂuctuate slightly around zero in the early stage, and only ﬂuctuate in a
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 15 of 18
slightly larger range in the later stage. On the whole, the ﬂuctuation of their residuals
is always within the normal range, and the larger changes in the later period must have
been affected by other variables. Basically, it can be judged that the wind speed is always
in a steady change for a period of time before and after the generator failure. Therefore,
the generator failure caused by the natural environment can be ruled out. There is a fault
caused by the generator itself or by long-term operation.
The temperature residual change trend of generator stator winding u1, v1, w1 and
bearing temperature is shown in Figure 10.
Energies 2022 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  16 of 19  
 
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
Time series-0.2-0.15-0.1-0.0500.050.10.150.2Residual errorStator winding temperature  u1
Stator winding temperature  v1
Stator winding temperature  w1 
(a) 
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
Time series-0.8-0.7-0.6-0.5-0.4-0.3-0.2-0.100.10.20.3Residual errorGenerator bearing temperature  a
Generator bearing temperature  b0.4
 
(b) 
Figure 10. Test set reconstruction error. (a) Variation trend of temperature residual of generator 
stator windings. ( b) Variation trend of temperature residual of generator bearing.  
6. Conclusions  
Aiming at the problem of wind turbine fault early warning, the deep confidence 
network is used to mine the characteristic information of SCADA data layer by layer 
under the normal operation state of the generator and intelligently l earn the internal 
relationship among the parameters, and a multivariable DBN reconfiguration network 
model of wind turbine is proposed. For the problem that it is difficult to determine the 
parameters of the DBN network, the improved particle swarm optimiz ation algorithm 
can better solve this problem. The fault early warning of generator can be realized 
through the reconstruction error of the IPSO -DBN model and the residual variation of 
each input variable . Compared with the DBN wind turbine fault model and the 
PSO -DBN wind turbine fault model, this model has better performance in accuracy, 
training time and nonlinear fitting ability, so it can better meet the needs of practical 
engineering.  
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Z.Z. and S.W.; me thodology, Z.Z.; software, P.J.; 
validation, S.W. and P.J.; formal analysis, S.W.; investigation, H.Z.; resources, P.W.; data curation, 
Z.Z.; writing —original draft preparation, S.W.; writing —review and editing, Z.Z.; visualization, 
H.Z.; supervision, P.J.; project administration, P.W.; funding acquisition, P.W. All authors have 
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.  
Funding:  This work was financially supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China , 
grant number 1 2171135;  S&T Program of Hebei , grant number 216Z2103G ; Natural Science 
Foundation of Hebei Province , grant number A2020201021 ; Hebei Province High -level Talent 
funding Project , grant number B2020005004 ; Baoding Science and Technology Plan Pr oject , grant 
number 2163P036 . 
Figure 10. Test set reconstruction error. ( a) Variation trend of temperature residual of generator stator
windings. ( b) Variation trend of temperature residual of generator bearing.
It can be seen from Figure 10a that the trend of temperature residual of generator
stator winding is not obviously abnormal, so the possibility of failure of generator coil
winding can also be ruled out. From Figure 10b, it can be seen that the residual sequence
of generator bearing temperature a (that is, generator front shaft) deviates obviously and
changes sharply, which proves the previous conjecture from the positive side. This is due
to the long sampling period and no slow temperature change process. Combined with the
fault records of the SCADA system, the report shows that the generator has the front axle
overheating. It is proved that the model proposed in this paper is effective for wind turbine
fault early warning.
6. Conclusions
Aiming at the problem of wind turbine fault early warning, the deep conﬁdence
network is used to mine the characteristic information of SCADA data layer by layer under
the normal operation state of the generator and intelligently learn the internal relationship
among the parameters, and a multivariable DBN reconﬁguration network model of wind
turbine is proposed. For the problem that it is difﬁcult to determine the parameters of the
DBN network, the improved particle swarm optimization algorithm can better solve this
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 16 of 18
problem. The fault early warning of generator can be realized through the reconstruction
error of the IPSO-DBN model and the residual variation of each input variable. Compared
with the DBN wind turbine fault model and the PSO-DBN wind turbine fault model, this
model has better performance in accuracy, training time and nonlinear ﬁtting ability, so it
can better meet the needs of practical engineering.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Z.Z. and S.W.; methodology, Z.Z.; software, P .J.; valida-
tion, S.W. and P .J.; formal analysis, S.W.; investigation, H.Z.; resources, P .W.; data curation, Z.Z.;
writing—original draft preparation, S.W.; writing—review and editing, Z.Z.; visualization, H.Z.;
supervision, P .J.; project administration, P .W.; funding acquisition, P .W. All authors have read and
agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This work was ﬁnancially supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China,
grant number 12171135; S&T Program of Hebei, grant number 216Z2103G; Natural Science Founda-
tion of Hebei Province, grant number A2020201021; Hebei Province High-level Talent funding Project,
grant number B2020005004; Baoding Science and Technology Plan Project, grant number 2163P036.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Nomenclature
Acronyms and abbreviations
DBN deep belief network
IPSO improved particle swarm optimization
PSO particle swarm optimization
SCADA supervisory control and data acquisition
Indices
i index of particle
k number of iteration
d number of dimensional
Variables
bi offset of the ineuron of the visible layer
v particle speed
x particle position
pid optimal solutions of the d-dimensional individual of the iparticle
pgdoptimal solutions of the d-dimensional population history of the
iparticle
w inertia weight
c1 individual learning factor
c2 population learning factor
c1min minimum of individual learning factor
c2max population learning factor
c1min minimum of individual learning factor
c2max population learning factor
cj bias of the jneuron of the hidden layer
r1 random number in the interval [0, 1]
r2 random number in the interval [0, 1]
wmax maximum inertia weights
!min minimum inertia weights ﬂow of node
T maximum number of iterations
K weight control factor
Eq RBM energy
vi ineuron state of visible layer
hj jneuron state of the hidden layer
wijconnection weight between the ineuron of the visible layer and
thejneuron of the hidden layer
Pq joint probability distribution function
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 17 of 18
Zq distribution function
L(q) likelihood function
f(x) activation function
# learning rate
n number of neurons
vo wind speed
P generator power
W generator speed
Tt generator torque
Tai air cooling temperature of generator
Tba temperature of generator front axle A
Tbb temperature of generator front axle B
Tu1 generator winding u1 temperature
Tv1 generator winding v1 temperature
Tw1 generator winding w1 temperature
Tssi side temperature of spindle impeller
xi data before normalization
xI data after normalization
Xmax maximum value of the original data
xmin minimum value of the original data
fﬁtness ﬁtness function
n number of data samples
m dimension of data samples
xij j-dimensional data of the ioriginal sample
ˆxij j-dimensional data of the ireconstructed sample
Re reconstruction error
ˆx reconstructed data vector
X original data vector
m mean errors of Re
s root mean square errors of Re
N length of Re
Uth reconstruction error threshold
References
1. Fang, R.; Wu, M.; Guo, X.; Shang, R.; Shao, P . Identifying early defects of wind turbine based on SCADA data and dynamical
network marker. Renew. Energy 2020 ,154, 625–635.
2. Qian, P .; Zhang, D.; Tian, X.; Si, Y.; Li, L. A novel wind turbine condition monitoring method based on cloud computing. Renew.
Energy 2019 ,135, 390–398. [CrossRef]
3. Jin, Z.; Huo, Z.; Xu, C.; Guo, H.; Zhou, H. Fault diagnosis for wind turbine based on random forest and XGBoost. Renew. Energy
Resour. 2021 ,39, 353–358.
4. Hanumant, P .J.; Anand, K.B.; Ravinder, K.; Ahmadi, M.H.; Assad, M.E.H. RAM analysis and availability optimization of thermal
power plant water circulation system using PSO. Energy Rep. 2021 ,7, 1133–1153.
5. Ma, J.; Tang, B.; Han, Y. Design of networking condition monitoring and fault diagnosis for wind turbine transmission system. J.
Chongqing Univ. 2015 ,38, 37–44.
6. Zhao, H.; Liu, H.; Liu, H.; Lin, J. Condition monitoring and fault diagnosis of wind turbine generator based on stacked
autoencoder network. Autom. Electr. Power Syst. 2018 ,42, 102–108.
7. Yin, S.; Hou, G.; Hu, X.; Robu, V .; Flynn, D.; Barnes, M.; Keane, J.; Nenadic, G. Fault warning and identiﬁcation of front bearing of
wind turbine generator. Chin. J. Sci. Instrum. 2020 ,41, 242–251.
8. Li, D.; Mao, X.; Yin, P .; Wu, F. The rear bearing temperature of early warning method in wind turbine based on NSET. Sci. Technol.
Eng. 2016 ,16, 205–209.
9. Wang, Z. Research on Modeling Method of Condition Monitoring of Wind Turbine. Ph.D. Thesis, North China Electric Power
University, Beijing, China, 2018.
10. Huo, J.; Tang, G.; Liu, D.; Zhang, M. A novel monitoring method of wind turbine generator real-time reliability based on
tempeture signals. Renew. Energy Resour. 2016 ,34, 408–412.
11. Chen, J.; Pan, J.; Li, Z.; Zi, Y.; Chen, X. Generator bearing fault diagnosis for wind turbine via empirical wavelet transform using
measured vibration signals. Renew. Energy 2016 ,89, 80–92. [CrossRef]
12. Jiang, R.; Teng, W.; Liu, X.; Tang, S. Diagnosis of electrical corrosion fault in wind turbine generator bearing based on vibration
signal analysis. Electr. Power 2019 ,52, 128–133.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2022 ,15, 9072 18 of 18
13. Schmidhuber, J. Deep learning in neural networks: An overview. Neural Netw. 2015 ,61, 85–117.
14. Geng, J.; Jiang, W.; Deng, X. Multi-scale deep feature learning network with bilateral ﬁltering for SAR image classiﬁcation-
ScienceDirect. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 2020 ,167, 201–213. [CrossRef]
15. Jeon, M.H.; Lee, Y.; Shin, Y.S.; Jang, H.; Kim, A. Underwater object detection and pose estimation using deep learning. IFAC-
PapersOnLine 2019 ,52, 78–81. [CrossRef]
16. Lei, J.; Liu, C.; Jiang, D. Fault diagnosis of wind turbine based on Long Short-term memory networks. Renew. Energy 2019 ,133,
422–432. [CrossRef]
17. Jin, X.; Xu, Z.; Sun, Y.; Shan, J. Online condition monitoring for wind turbines based on SCADA data analysis and sparse
auto-encoder neural network. Acta Energ. Sol. Sin. 2021 ,42, 321–328.
18. Ren, J.; Tang, B.; Yong, B.; Deng, L.; Zhang, K. Wind turbine gearbox fault warning based on depth variational autoencoders
network fusion SCADA data. Acta Energ. Sol. Sin. 2021 ,42, 403–408.
19. Chen, R.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, Q.; Liu, T. Optimal design of grid structure in a DC system based on a PSO algorithm. Power Syst. Prot.
Control. 2021 ,49, 165–172.
20. Zhang, Y.; Wang, L.; Zhou, H.; Zhao, H. Design and application of particle swarm optimization based on competitive learning.
Comput. Meas. Control. 2021 ,29, 182–189.
21. Liu, M.; Dong, M.; Jing, C. Scheduled completion learing based multi-objective particle swarm optimization algorithm. J. Comput.
Appl. 2019 ,39, 330–335.
22. Wang, S.; Liu, G. A nonlinear dynamic adaptive inertial weight particle swarm optimization. Comput. Simul. 2021 ,38, 249–253.
23. Li, X.; Xiao, J.; Pan, Y.; Liu, S.; Deng, X. Research on leveling control system of fuzzy PID vehicle-mounted platform based on PSO.
Mod. Manuf. Eng. 2021 ,2, 58–65.
24. Hui, S.L.; Fan, S.; Chin, C.; Chai, S.; Bose, N.; Kim, E. Constrained path planning of autonomous underwater vehicle using
selectively-hybridized particle swarm optimization algorithms. IFAC-PapersOnLine 2019 ,52, 315–322.
25. Rui, J.; Zhang, H.; Zhang, D.; Han, F.; Guo, Q. Total organic carbon content prediction based on support-vector-regression
machine with particle swarm optimization. J. Pet. Sci. Eng. 2019 ,180, 699–706. [CrossRef]
26. Zhu, L.; Shao, S.; Jing, W.; Liu, L. PSO-optimized-fast segmentation algorithm for 3D Otsu forest canopy image. J. Harbin Univ.
Sci. Technol. 2019 ,24, 128–133.
27. Engelbrecht, A.P .; Grobler, J.; Langeveld, J. Set based particle swarm optimization for the feature selection problem. Eng. Appl.
Artif. Intell. 2019 ,85, 324–336. [CrossRef]
28. Li, Q. Power big data anomaly detection method based on an improved PSO-PFCM clustering algorithm. Power Syst. Prot.
Control. 2021 ,49, 161–166.
29. Li, Z.; Liang, C.; Wang, M. Short-term power generation output prediction based on a PSO-DBN neural network. Power Syst. Prot.
Control. 2020 ,48, 149–154.
30. Hua, Y.; Wang, S.; Bai, G.; Li, B. An improved particle swarm optimization algorithm based on nonlinear decreasing inertial
weights. J. Chongqing Technol. Bus. Univ. (Nat. Sci. Ed.) 2021 ,38, 1–9.
31. Sheng, H.; Yang, J.; Zhang, G.; Yang, Y.; Geng, H.; Lu, L. Optimal conﬁguration of micro energy network based on improved PSO
algorithm. Power Syst. Clean Energy 2021 ,37, 23–31.
32. Khosravi, A.; Nunes, R.O.; Assad, M.E.H.; Machado, L. Comparison of artiﬁcial intelligence methods in estimation of daily global
solar radiation. J. Clean. Prod. 2018 ,194, 342–358. [CrossRef]
33. Dai, J. Research on Transformer State Assessment Based on Deep Learning. Ph.D. Thesis, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
China, 2018.
34. Yang, W.; Yin, K.; Bao, Y.; Yi, X.; Xu, B. Fault types identiﬁcation of power grid based on deep belief network. Electr. Power Eng.
Technol. 2012 ,40, 113–117.
35. Ding, S.; Li, X.; Hang, J.; Wang, Y.J.; Wang, Q.J. Deep learning theory and its application to fault diagnosis of an electric machine.
Power Syst. Prot. Control. 2020 ,48, 172–187.
36. Peng, B.S.; Xia, H.; Liu, Y.K.; Yang, B.; Guo, D.; Zhu, S.M. Research on intelligent fault diagnosis method for nuclear power plant
based on correlation analysis and deep belief network. Prog. Nucl. Energy 2018 ,108, 419–427. [CrossRef]
37. Li, B.; Zeng, H. Application of improved deep belief network in electric spindle fault diagnosis. Mech. Sci. Technol. Aerosp. Eng.
2021 ,40, 1051–1057.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
