 
System Health Monitoring 
of Wind Turbines Using SCADA Data 
and Gaussian Mixture Models 
Akihisa Yasuda1, Jun Ogata2, Masahiro Murakawa3, Hiroyuki Morikawa4, and Makoto Iida5 
1,4,5The University of Tokyo Research Center for Advanced Science and Technology , Meguro- Ku, Tokyo , 153-0041, Japan 
yasudaakihisa@mlab.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp 
mori@mlab.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp 
iida@ilab.eco.rcast.u-tokyo.ac.jp 
2,3National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tsukuba-Shi , Ibaraki , 305-8560, Japan 
jun.ogata@aist.go.jp 
m.murakawa@aist.go.jp
ABSTRACT  
Wi
nd turbines are the major driving force to produce 
renewable energy, but there is a strong need to reduce the 
costs of operation and maintenance. To detect anomalies of 
wind turbines, this paper proposes a method which uses data 
collected by the Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition 
(SCADA) system and is based upon building the normal 
behavior model of wind turbines. This is achieved by using 
supervised data and Gaussian mixture models with filtering 
SCADA data from the macroscopic point of view. The 
method is validated with SCADA data collected from actual 
2-MW wind turbines. The result shows the potential of
detecting anomalies and the effectiveness of filtering
conditions for building the model.
1.INTRODUCTION
The Wind power markets has grown strongly worldwide. In 
2015, more than 63 GW were added – a 22% increase over 
the 2014 market – for a global total of around 433 GW and 
more than half of the world's wind power capacity has been 
added over the past few years. In order to maintain the growth 
of these wind power markets, the Levelized Cost of Energy 
should be kept as low as possible, and the operation and 
maintenance costs should be reduced. Although an effective 
method for this purpose is a Condition Monitoring System 
(CMS), commercially available CMS are very expensive, and 
attaching to all of wind turbines that exist in every wind farm 
is very difficult.  
Instead of CMS, we propose the use of data collected by the 
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems, 
that are already equipped with most of wind turbines. 
Although the condition monitoring method for wind turbines 
that utilize the SCADA data is very effective, it is very 
difficult for previous research to predict the anomaly several months before the failure of the internal equipment of a wind 
turbine happens, because SCADA data is mainly utilized in 
the system control of wind turbines and SCADA data is not 
directly affected by serious damages in the internal 
equipment.  
Therefore, we propose a method to extract the f eatures of 
wind turbines 
to build the normal behavior model from 
SCADA data with proper pre-processing. Further, many 
previous studies have proposed the method which analyzes 
individual SCADA data items, but we propose the integration 
of each filtered SCADA items into one classification model 
to grasp the dynamic changes of wind turbines sensitively.   
2.SYSTEM  HEALTH  MONITORING  MODEL
2.1. System framework for proposed approaches  
In this paper, a system framework based on Gaussian Mixture 
Model (GMM) is proposed for wind turbine health 
monitoring. This is shown in Figure 1. which includes 2 parts, 
i.e., off-line modeling and on-line degradation assessment. It
needs to collect historical SCADA data from normal behavior
state to construct a GMM model and calculate the threshold
data. It then uses them to evaluate the performan ce
degradation assessment of wind turbines.
2.2. Strategy of monitoring condition  
SCADA data is in the form of time series data and the wind 
turbines system state is not constant, hence it is very difficult 
to define the normal behavior model. Therefore, in order to 
ignore the minor fluctuations and grasp the essential changes 
300ASIAPACIFIC CONFERENCE OF THE PROGNOSTICS AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT SOCIETY 2017
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ASIA PACIFIC CONFERENCE OF THE P ROGNOSTICS AND HEALTH M ANAGEMENT S OCIETY 2017 
SCADA data
On-line: degradation assessmentModeling
Calculate anomaly level
Anomaly detectionCalculate threshold
Off-line: modeling processGMM
Threshold Anomaly levelPre-processing (Feature extraction)History data (training data) Real-time data (test data)
Figure 1 . System framework for proposed approaches. 
of the internal equipment, we decided to pay attentions to the 
macroscopic operating condition of wind turbines. 
Specifically, by constructing a model that uses almost all of 
SCADA data items related to the internal equipment such as 
main shaft, gear box, and generator, it is possible to model 
the entire drive train. 
The normal behavior model referred here is the classification 
model built by historical SCADA data, to classify the current 
data which is set arbitrarily. The higher the similarity of the 
normal behavior model to actual wind turbines, the more 
accurate the evaluation result is.  
When building the normal behavior model using machine 
learning algorithms, it is possible to extract relationships 
between SCADA data regardless of the specification about 
structure of the internal equipment of wind turbines .  
Further, since SCADA data is time series data, component 
elements included in the behavior model built from SCADA 
data are 4. Namely; trend patterns component, cyclic patterns 
component, seasonal patterns component and irregular 
patterns component . Because of extracting the characteristics 
of SCADA data, there is a need to select the most appropriate 
time series component for building the normal behavior 
model and to exclude factors of the model referred from other 
time series elements. 
2.3. Characteristics of SCADA data  
When making a classification model using machine learning, 
in order to extract relationships between the data properly, it 
is important to select the response variable which matched 
the characteristics of the data. Because SCADA data is used 
in control applications, wind condition data as input 
information, power generation data as output information and 
drive train data as relationship information are collected 
respectively. Looking at the relationships between these data, 
it is suitable for SCADA data to build the behavior model of 
the drive train with respect to the input information by setting 
the amount of power generation data as output information .  
Furthermore, the collection frequency of SCADA data is 
every 10 minutes and the data used for building the 
classification model are also mean values. Hence, it is 
difficult to measure the delicate fluctuations of wind turbines. Therefore, when considering the characteristics of SCADA 
data in four components of the time series data, the 
appropriate component for normal behavior model is the 
trend patterns component. Consequently, when building the 
normal behavior model using SCADA data, there is a need to 
extract trend patterns component. 
3.PRE-PROCESSING
3.1. Wind conditions  
When extracting relationships between SCADA data 
concerning to power generation, it is necessary to filter 
SCADA data in wind conditions which are the input 
information of drive train. Changes in wind conditions are 
particularly influenced by seasonal fluctuations. Therefore, 
by performing the filtering of wind conditions, it is possible 
to simulate the exclusion of the seasonal component. 
Firstly, in the filtering process of SCADA data, for the wind 
conditions, we limit the scope of the wind speed. The wind 
speed at wind turbines is mainly divided into 3 regions in the 
operational state. Region 1 is 0 - 5 m/s, Region 2 is 5 - 14 m/s, 
and Region 3 is 14 - 25 m/s. Focusing on Region 2 is 
appropriate for health monitoring because it causes moderate 
load on internal components of wind turbines and induces 
failure state in the important components such as the gearbox 
and generator. Therefore, we use only the data that is 
contained in the wind speed of Region 2 from SCADA data, 
and exclude all other data. 
Secondly, because most of the SCADA data is collected at 10 
minutes intervals, we should grasp the wind conditions of the 
10 minutes and exclude data which includes strong 
turbulence factors. Therefore, we use a turbulence intensity I 
defined as follows, Eq. (1).   
VI2
(1) 
In Eq. (1), 
  is a standard deviation of wind speed and V is 
a mean value of wind speed. We determined that the 
turbulence intensity threshold is 0.5 an d all values over this 
threshold are excluded. 
3.2. Operational conditions  
There are 2 types of the control method of wind turbines by 
wind conditions, namely, the pitch control and the yaw 
control. In the yaw control, we exclude noise data using the 
number of changes of the yaw angle for 10 minutes. 
Specifically, we calculate a 95% confidence interval of the 
number of changes to the yaw angle using the bootstrap 
method from SCADA data and exclude all the data that 
crosses the threshold. In the pitch control, we exclude noise 
data using the average pitch angle for 10 minutes. As well as 
the number of changes of the yaw angle, we calculate 95% 
confidence interval of the average pitch angle after excluding 
301
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ASIA PACIFIC CONFERENCE OF THE P ROGNOSTICS AND HEALTH M ANAGEMENT S OCIETY 2017 
the notable
 noise data and exclude noise data using threshold 
of the average pitch angle. 
3.3. Noise exclusion 
We apply One-Class SVM to exclude the noise data which 
can't be detected in other pre-processing methods based on 
domain knowledge about SCADA data. In this One-Class 
SVM, we set the RBF kernel as a kernel function and as a 
constraint parameter. 
4.CLASSIFICATION  MODEL  DEVELOPMENT
4.1. Selection of Machine Learn ing Algorithm  
When building a classification model using a machine 
learning algorithm, classification performance and 
generalization are the criterion of selecting the algorithm and 
it is also necessary to consider the characteristics of data. It is 
very difficult to select the boundary between normal and 
anomaly by using some supervised-learning model, since 
there are no prior information regarding the defect severity. 
In this problem, GMM is the suitable algorithm under the 
assumption that only the healthy data are available.  
GMM model 
 |z p  with M mixture components in 
lR  can 
be defined as:  
   
M
mm mz p z p
1| |   
(2) 
where 
 T
lz z z,...,) 1 (  is the l-dimensional data vector, 
  M mm ,...,2 , 1 1 , 0   
 are the mixing proportions subject 
to 
M
m m11 , 
m is the parameters composed by the mean
vector 
m and the covariance matrix 
m . 
In addition, since GMM is a parametric model that extends 
the Gaussian distribution, if the confidence interval is set to 
for example 95%, it can be determined that the remaining 5% 
is an anomaly from the spreading of the probability density 
distribution. Therefore, even for events with unknown 
changes such as time series data, thresholds can be set and 
classified. In the case of non-parametric models such as 
Neural Net, Support Vector Machine and Random Forest, it 
is very difficult to set threshold values for anomaly detection, 
because the parameters of them depend on data completely.  
4.2. Negative log likelihood probability  
The quantification criterion is needed to evaluate whether a 
new SCADA record data set is healthy or not. Generally, 
negative log likelihood probability (NLLP) is used as the 
quantification indication of health condition, hence, we 
defined NLLP value as the anomaly score .  
For each new SCADA record, NLLP can be described with 
probability density of GMM as:  
 | logz p NLLP (3) 
In order to improve the sensitivity and reliability of the NLLP 
to the slight degradation of wind turbine components, NLLP 
based exponentially weighted moving average (EWMA) 
statistic is used as an improved quantification indication. 
EWMA 
tW  can be obtained as follows: 
 t t t NLLP W W      1 1
(4) 
Where 
  is a smoothing constant between 0 and 1, and 
tW  is 
obtained by the average of preliminary data. EWMA is a type 
of convolution, therefore it can be viewed as an example of a 
low-pass filter and the trend of 
tW  varies depending on the 
control parameter 
 . If the value of 
  is large, it puts more 
weight on the current observation than the historic 
observations . As we denoted in Section 2 , we only need to 
extract the trend patterns component for evaluating the 
degradation of wind turbines. Hence, in general, a value of 

 ranging between 0.05 and 0.25 is recommended, but we 
used 0.01 for proceeding smoothing of fluctuations of 
operating condition of wind turbines and ignoring cyclic 
patterns component.  
5.EVALUATION
To investigate the effectiveness of the proposed system for 
wind turbine health monitoring, one actual failure case is 
studied in this section. 
5.1. SCADA data set  
SCADA data used in this evaluation is measured in a wind 
farm which has 10 2 MW-class wind turbines and the data is 
collected at 10 minutes intervals during the period of 
2014/10/01 - 2015/10/31. SCADA data items were selected 
in relationship to the drive train operation, such as wind speed, 
rotational speed of main shaft, gear bearing temperature, gear 
oil temperature, rotational speed of generator, generator 
bearing temperature, generator temperature and power.  
On March 15th 2014, a failure happened in a wind turbine 
described above. The generator bearing connected with the 
high speed shaft broke . To evaluate anomaly detection 
performance of the health monitoring system, we used only 
SCADA data of a failed wind turbine, because the features 
relating to the anomaly are averaged and anomaly detection 
becomes difficult if we use SCADA data of other 9 wind 
turbines. A period of four-month SCADA data after the 
failure is selected as the normal condition data. Because the 
health condition of the wind turbine before the failure has 
degraded , the health monitoring system would not be able to 
extract the feature about healthy condition of the wind turbine 
with that data. Further , we selected SCADA data for 4 month 
so that the number of records would exceed 2000, and 
eventually the number of records was 2057.  
302
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ASIA PACIFIC CONFERENCE OF THE P ROGNOSTICS AND HEALTH M ANAGEMENT S OCIETY 2017 
5.2. Results  
Figure 2. 
shows the NLLP value as an anomaly score which 
is calculated by the proposed system using only SCADA data. 
The number of mixture components of a GMM included in 
the system was 7, and the threshold value was calculated as 
NLLP value using the training data and indicates a value 
deviating from the confidence interval 95%. Figure 2. 
indicates that the health monitoring system has the capability 
to discriminate between the training data which is the normal 
behavior state and the test data which includes the anomaly 
state. 
As the evaluation results, we calculated the receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC) curve using a fixed threshold at the 
period setting, which is extending every 3 days from the 
failure occur date. The ROC curve is defined here as the true 
positive rate (proportion of positive samples that are correctly 
identified as anomaly with the threshold exceeded) against 
the false positive rate (proportion of negative samples that are 
incorrectly identified as anomaly without exceeding the 
threshold).  
Figure 2 . Degradation assessment result by NLLP(EWMA). 
Figure 3. Number of days back from the date of failure. Figure 3. shows the area under the curve (AUC) which is 
equal to the area between the full ROC curve. AUC is the 
probability that a classifier will rank a randomly chosen 
positive instance higher than a randomly chosen negative one. 
Figure 3. indicates the anomaly detection performance of the 
system and the possibility to predict the failure occurrence 
three months in advance. In fact, in December 2014 
commercially available CMS equipped in a failed wind 
turbine issued a warning which operators should  do 
maintenance work  immediately.  
6.CONCLUSION
In this paper, we presented a SCADA data based anomaly 
detection method for wind turbine health monitoring. At the 
feature extraction stage, we applied a filtering method based 
on the domain knowledge about wind turbine operation and 
selected almost all of SCADA data items related to the 
internal equipment to model the entire drive train. At the 
anomaly detection stage, we employed an classification 
approach based on GMM. The evaluation using actual 
SCADA data showed that the proposed system has the 
possibility to predict a failure three months in advance.  
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT  
This paper is based on results obtained from a project 
commissioned by the New Energy and Industrial Technology 
Development Organization (NEDO). 
REFERENCES  
C. Lins et al. (2015). Renewables 2015 global status report,
REN21 . http://www.ren21.net/renewables-2015-glob al-
status-report-full-report-2 
Chris Bishop (2006). Pattern recognition and machine 
learning . Springer. 
Duda, Richard O., Peter E. Hart, & David G. Stork (2001). 
Pattern classification. 2nd., edition . New York 
Hamilton, James Douglas (1994). Time series analysis, Vol. 
2.Princeton university press
Rohatgi, J. S., & Nelson, V. (1994). Wind characteristics: An 
analysis for the generation of wind power , Alternative 
Energy Institute, West Texas A&M University . 
Kim, K., Parthasarathy, G., Uluyol, O., Foslien, W., Sheng, 
S., & Fleming, P. (2011). Use of SCADA data for failure 
detection in wind turbines. In ASME 2011 5th 
International Conference on Energy Sustainability (pp. 
2071-2079), January, American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers 
Martin, E. B., & A. J. Morris (1996). Non-parametric 
Confidence Bounds for Process Performance Monitoring 
Charts. Journal of Process Control, 6 6, 349-358 
Yu, Jianbo (2011). Bearing Performance Degradation 
Assessment Using Locality Preserving Projections and 
Gaussian Mixture Models. Mechanical Systems and 
Signal Processing , 25 7, 2573-2588 
303
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
