Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer 
Vessel Fleet for Offshore Wind FarmMaintenance Operations
Yalcin Dalgic, Iraklis Lazakis and Osman Turan
Department of Naval Architecture, Ocean and Marine Engineering, 
University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, G4 0LZ, UK
ABSTRACT
The offshore wind industry, which aims to reduce the operational costs, usually achieved through learning curves and
supply chain improvements, has seen drastic cost increase over the last five years. In order to sustain the competitivenessof the offshore wind industry against other renewable energy sources, the cost of offshore wind needs to come down totoday’s onshore cost. This cost reduction target can be achieved through optimising the offshore related operations whichcontribute the most to the operating expenditures (OPEX) of the offshore wind farms. In this paper, the investigation ofoptimum crew transfer vessel fleet, which indicates the influence of fleet size and characteristics of the vessels involvedin the operations, is introduced with a focus on power production, total cost of the Operation and Maintenance (O&M)and revenue loss. A time domain Monte-Carlo approach is adopted while taking into consideration the climate parameters,failure characteristics of turbine components, the specification of crew transfer vessels, and the composition of vessel fleet.Through this extensive study, it is concluded the O&M related costs can be reduced significantly while the availability andthe productivity of the turbines can be increased by optimising the use of the O&M vessel fleet in terms of fleet sizeand vessel capabilities.
Keywords: Offshore Wind, Operation and Maintenance, Crew Transfer Vessel, Fleet Optimisation, Accessibility, OperabilityReceived 10/05/2014; Accepted 03/10/2014
1. INTRODUCTION
Over the last few years, developers/operators were encouraged to invest in offshore wind energydue to larger areas which could accommodate major offshore projects, absence of limitationsassociated with visual impact and noise, higher wind potentials, and lower turbulence levels in theoffshore environment. Despite all these advantages, electricity generation from offshore wind is stillconsiderably more expensive compared to onshore wind [1]. In order to decrease the cost ofelectricity generation and increase the competitiveness of the offshore wind industry against otheralternative energy sectors, it is essential to minimise the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs.In this respect, vessels are particularly important, since the costs for vessels account for 50% of thetotal O&M costs [2–5]. Due to the fact that each turbine typically requires approximately six visitsper year mainly for minor O&M activities [6]; number of Crew Transfer Vessels (CTVs) accountfor 40.6% of the market, while cabling vessels, jack-up vessels, heavy lift vessels and other vesselaccount for 21.3%, 16%, 12%, and 10%, respectively [7].WIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015
PP31–52 31
*Corresponding Author: Yalcin Dalgic
Tel: +44 (0)141 548 4778, +44 (0)141 548 4094 Fax: +44 (0)141 552 2879E-mail Addresses: yalcin.dalgic@strath.ac.uk, iraklis.lazakis@strath.ac.uk, o.turan@strath.ac.ukPostal Address: Department of Naval Architecture, Ocean and Marine Engineering, University of Strathclyde, 100Montrose Street, Glasgow G4 0LZ, United Kingdom
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Although the majority of the projects are still in the warranty period, in less than five years 79%
of wind turbines are set to move out of warranty [8]. Furthermore, current offshore access systemsallow access for 200 days of the year, which may decrease significantly due to harsher conditionsin further offshore fields. Therefore, operators have to plan the O&M activities and associated costsin depth, as they will have to bear these costs in the near future.
Therefore, the main focus of this paper is to optimise CTV fleet towards optimum O&M cost,
minimum revenue loss, and maximum electricity generation while analyses of environmentalconditions, investigation of failure rates, and assessment of vessel operations form the foundationsof this study. Using the results of this study, it will be possible to decide the specifications of CTVsand the composition of the fleet which will bring the most economical benefits. The paper isstructured as follows; in section 2, the common procedures, aspects and issues associated with themaintenance of offshore wind farms are presented. Through the observations in that section, theproposed methodology is explained in section 3. A case study is presented in section 4 in order tovalidate the proposed model. The results of the study are demonstrated in section 5 whileconcluding remarks are presented in the concluding section.
2. LITERATURE REVIEW
Currently, offshore wind O&M related research is dominated by the preventive and predictivemaintenance concepts. Whilst preventive maintenance related research is interested in theoptimisation of O&M intervals [9–14], predictive maintenance related research intended to improvethe performance of condition monitoring systems [15–17] and evaluate the reliability performancesof different components and compositions [18–20]. However, these models are still not completeenough to provide sufficient support for offshore wind due to the fact that vessel specific attributesare generally neglected or ignored. Furthermore, the implementation of these maintenanceapproaches does not give satisfactory results for the entire offshore wind farm projects.
2.1. CTV selection
There are several attributes which have to be considered in the CTV selection process. Figure 1presents the majority of these attributes in a single framework. Vessel specification, financial32 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
Figure 1. Attributes in the CTV selection process
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
attributes, environmental conditions, and failure characteristics are the major segments in the CTV
selection process. There are also several sub-sections related to each segment. It has to behighlighted that the number of segments and sub-sections can vary depending on the scope of theanalyses.
2.1.1. CTV Specifications
One of the main issues in the O&M planning is the disregard of vessels and their influence on themaintenance methodology. It is not possible to represent offshore O&M activities withoutconsidering the environmental factors and the influence of these factors on the vessel operations. Asexplained in the previous sections, O&M activities cannot be performed without offshore access,and thus, it is necessary to consider vessel specific attributes and reaction time to the failures in themaintenance methodology.
Monohull boats, small catamaran vessels, and small water-plane area twin hull (SWATH) vessels
are generally utilised in minor maintenance operations, which allow operators to keep the cost ofminor maintenance operations at optimum level. Benefits and drawbacks of these vessels are listedin Table 1. Catamaran configurations are often the preferred choice by the operators [21]. The mostdistinctive characteristics of these vessels are high speed, small deck spaces, small crane capacitiesand safe access to wind turbine structures that will allow operators to take quick actions in the caseof unexpected failures.
2.1.2. Financial Attributes
Financial attributes include the costs and the loss of revenue that influence the CTV fleet selection.The vessel fuel cost, electricity selling price, CTV daily charter rates, and the actual repair cost ofthe components comprise the financial attributes group of the decision process. As in otherindustries, all the economic decisions are based on trade-offs between risk and cost. The most cost-efficient decisions are associated with the biggest risks. Conversely, the safest decisions require thehighest investments/costs. Neither of these options are acceptable for the offshore wind farmoperators due to the huge financial size of the projects and due to the cost of maintenanceoperations.
For instance, if an operator makes a risky decision and selects a vessel with the lowest
characteristics which can reduce the vessel associated costs, then the lost revenue may reachextreme points due to very low accessibility during the lifecycle of the project. On the other hand,if an operator makes a safe decision and selects a vessel with highest characteristics which canprovide sufficient support for O&M, but this situation may lead to a significant increase in thecharter and fuel costs.WIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 33
Table 1. Different CTV characteristics
Vessel type Benefits Drawbacks
Monohull – Very high speed (~ 30 knots) – Limited passenger (6 to 8)
– Reasonably lower charter rates – Limited cargo capacity– Lower fuel consumption – Uncomfortable for passengers,– High availability in the no other facilities available
offshore market – Limited safe access to turbines (H
S<1m)
Catamaran – High speed (~ 20 knots) – Limited passenger (12 and more)
– Operational H s= 1.5 m and cargo capacity
– Safe access to turbines – Limited cargo capacity
(HS<1.2m) – Relatively higher charter rates
SWATH – Capacity of 12 to 60 passengers – Limited cargo capacity
– High speed (~ 20 knots) – Low availability in the offshore– Operational H
s= 2.0 m wind market
– Safe access to turbines – Relatively higher charter rates
(HS<1.5m)
– Comfortable for passengers
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
The decision process related to fleet size is also important. Lower vessel numbers may lead to
cost reductions in the vessel associated O&M costs, while on the other hand wind turbine failuresmay remain unrepaired due to lack of resources, which increase the downtimes and theunavailability. The alternative option would create redundancy which is not acceptable, especiallywhen the main target is to decrease the cost of maintenance operations. Therefore, it is not enoughto decide the type, size, etc. of the CTV; the decision process has to be supported by the choice ofthe number of CTVs which will be used in the O&M fleet.
2.1.3. Environmental Conditions
Environmental conditions are another important measure which influence the O&M activities.Wind speed, wave height and wave period are major environmental constraints which will not onlyaffect the journey specific issues, but also the electricity generation of the offshore wind farms. Ina generic content, areas with stronger wind characteristics are more valuable for electricitygeneration. However, with regard to O&M, stronger wind is a constraint, similar to higher waveheights with shorter wave periods. Furthermore, stronger wind speeds have a negative effect on thefailure characteristics of the wind turbine components [22].
2.1.4. Failure Characteristics
Two main approaches are established in the failure characteristic and reliability investigation ofoffshore wind turbines. Whilst some of the studies investigated only a limited number ofcomponents or a single system in detail; such as generator system, grid connection, transmission[23–26]; other studies focused on the entire wind farm composition [27, 28], but missed somecritical issues. Utne [29] discussed the maintenance strategies for deep-sea offshore wind farms andalso indicated that the existing models consider single units and single component systems.Although these research studies considered theoretical solutions related to the reliability issues,none of them represent the real operational offshore environment. There are many theoreticalmodels, however most of them are not applicable to the offshore wind industry [29]. El-Thalji [30]indicated that it is critical to utilise models and techniques, which should be suitable for the real lifeapplication/scenarios in the actual operating environment.
3. METHODOLOGY
It is intended to synthesise and simulate five main calculation/analyses blocks in the proposed CTVfleet selection methodology; climate data generation block, failure analysis block, vessel transitmodel block, power calculation block and finally cost calculation block (Figure 2). In climate data34 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
Figure 2. Proposed methodology
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
generation block wind speed, wave height and wave period datasets are created to provide
information for other blocks. Whilst all the generated datasets provide information for the transitmodel, wind speed dataset also provides inputs for the power calculation block. Time dependentfailure rates are analysed within failure analysis block from which mean time between failures(MTBF) and mean time to repair (MTTR) values are provided to the power calculation block. Inthe vessel transit model block, journey specific calculations are performed for different CTVs in thevessel pool whilst total power produced and power lost due to failures, delays, and O&M activitiesare calculated in power calculation block. Cost calculation block is the final section where all theinformation from previous blocks is collected and outputs are generated to support the optimisationof CTV fleet for offshore wind farms.
3.1. Climate data generation block
Generally the climate datasets are not sufficient to cover the entire lifecycle of offshore wind farms.Although the data may cover the past 20–25 years, it is rare that the climate data will present exactlythe same track in the following 20–25 years. On the other hand, it is important to generate a datasetwith the same characteristics of the original dataset. In this respect, the original dataset, whichincludes wind speed, wave height, and wave period observations are divided into multiple yearlydatasets, number of which is defined by the duration of the original dataset, L
org(years ). All the
divided datasets consist of wind speed, wave height, and wave period observations within a periodof 1 year. Wind speed, wave height, and wave period observations are not disjointed from each otherin order to preserve the correlation.
After dividing the original dataset into number of multiple yearly datasets ( L
org), a discrete
uniform distribution that defines equal weights on the integers from 1 to Lorg, is utilised for random
sampling process. In this respect, each integer represents one of the pre-divided datasets; thus theselection of an integer indicates the selection of a pre-divided dataset which is represented by thatinteger. Random sampling continues until the number of randomly selected integers become equalto the length of simulations, L
sim(years ). The sampling procedure involves choosing random
samples with replacement which means that every sample is returned to the dataset after sampling.So a particular integer from the original dataset could appear multiple times.
Commonly, wind speed data is collected from a single location (height) of the observation
centres. However, the maintenance operations are performed at different altitudes (sea level and hublevel). Therefore, the wind speed data, which is related to a single height, has to be transformed intowind speeds at different altitudes so as to enhance the precision of the proposed model.
Various methods [31–33] exist related to the extrapolation of wind speed to the hub height of the
wind. Among these methods, the Wind Power Law is the most widely used method [34], which ispresented in Eqn 1;
v
2/v1= (h2/h1)α(1)
where v2is wind speed at elevation h2,v1is wind speed at reference height h1. The shear exponent
α is not a constant value; it varies depending on atmospheric conditions, temperature, pressure,humidity, time of the day and nature of terrain [35]. In offshore environment, the shear componentcan typically be assumed to be equal to 0.1 [36, 37].
3.2. Transit model block
In order to calculate the influence of different attributes for the CTV selection and the costsassociated with them, it is important to perform transit time calculations in a comprehensivemanner. Despite the fact that existing O&M models did not consider the effect of transit time on theO&M, it is believed that environmental conditions cause significant delays for the journeys.
In this respect, the transit model block will be formed in order to calculate ‘travel time’, ‘idle
time’, and ‘working time’ for each day of the simulations by considering that each time-step willhave different climate characteristics (different wind speed, wave height, and wave period). ‘Traveltime’ is the time spent on the journey (incoming and outgoing), ‘working time’ is the time spent forthe actual O&M activity, and ‘idle time’ is the period when CTVs are kept in the port due to weatherrestrictions.
The total distance between the loading port and the offshore wind farm is the constant input
for the transit time calculations. The variations on the vessel speed due to environmental effectsWIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 35
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
create fluctuations in the transit time calculations. Therefore, it is important to calculate the
speed of the vessel accurately in each time-step. The model calculates the transit time bycalculating the individual distances that are logged by the vessel in each time-step (Eqn 2).When the summation of individual distances becomes equal to the total distance between theloading port and the offshore wind farm, the model assumes that the vessel reached the offshorewind farm (Eqn 3).
Distance
i= Time step interval ×Vi (2)
(3)
In order to verify the CTV speed V i in each time-step; resistance and power analyses are
performed for each individual CTVs in the vessel pool under different environmental conditions.The steps below are followed in the CTV speed calculations;
1.  Calculation of total efficiency and calm water resistance of each CTV in the vessel
pool: The most accurate method to calculate the total efficiency and the calm waterresistance ( R
TCalm ) of the CTV is model testing in a towing tank and scaling up the
results to ship scale; alternative formulations which are presented by Helm [38] andMoody [39], can also be utilised. However, these equations are valid assuming the shipis sailing in calm water which is not always the case in the operational environment.When sailing in heavy seas, the vessel is subject to the added wave resistance andtherefore the propeller can be running up to 7-8% heavier than in calm water. Besidesthe sea margin, 10–15% of engine margin is frequently added as an operational marginfor the engine [40].
2.  Calculation of added resistance ( R
AWi) and total resistance ( RTi): The experimental curves
of the non-dimensional added resistant coefficient σAWwhich are plotted against wave
frequency wcan be found in [41]. Due to the fact that wave frequency varies between
each time step, it is necessary to perform added resistance calculations for all the timesteps. The total resistance of the CTV at ith time step can be calculated by using eqn 4
R
Ti= RAWi+ R TCalm(4)
3.  Calculation of speed losses and achievable speeds for each time speed in waves: Whilst a
CTV is traveling in waves, the skipper can keep the power constant and decrease the speedor keep the speed constant and increase the power. In the transit model block, the power andthrust of the CTVs will be kept constant and speed will change with the influence of waves.In this respect, the speed loss and the achievable speed by the CTV in each time step underthe condition of constant power and thrust can be calculated by the formulations inBerlekom, et al. [42] and Berlekom [43].
4.  Calculation of transit time: The calculation of distance which CTV travels in each time
step interval can be calculated by Eqn 5
Distance
i =Time Step Interval ×Vai (5)
3.2.1. Constraints in the Transit Model Block
Maximum operational wind speed and maximum operational wave height values for CTVs will bethe main constraints of the transit model block. When the generated climate values exceed these pre-defined values, the vessel speed at this time step will be set to zero, which indicates that the CTVscannot sail under these environmental conditions. One additional point is that the environmentalconditions may allow O&M operations several times for a limited time in the same day, for instance2 hours in the morning, 5 hours in the afternoon. In this case, the model considers the maximumweather window in that shift and allocates the CTVs in this period. It is considered that betweendeparture and arrival of the CTVs, the environmental conditions will be sufficient enough forsailing without any interruption.
In addition to the environmental constraints, there might be circumstances which the distance
that is logged in sequential time steps might not be sufficient enough to make the journey Total Distance Distance  ii
0∑=36 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
cost-effective. Additionally, there might be some cases that the time spent on the journey might be
longer than the time spent on the actual O&M activity. Therefore, a ‘minimum working limit’ hasto be defined for making a working shift acceptable and cost-effective. The ‘minimum workinglimit’ will create extra constraint for the transit model. Although, maximum weather window valueis more than the summation of the ‘working time’ and the ‘travel time’; if the ‘working time’ valuefor that day is less than the ‘minimum working limit’, ‘working time’ and the ‘travel time’ valueswill be set to zero and ‘idle time’ will be set to the period shift, which indicates that the CTVs willnot sail during this day, because the cost of the journey will be higher than the benefits that will begained from the O&M activity.
3.3. Failure analyses block
A time domain Monte-Carlo approach has been adopted, which relies on random number generationto ensure that all possibilities are covered in an unbiased manner. Such an approach requiresdeterministic and stochastic events. While the former is governed by the inputs and theassumptions; turbine failures and weather conditions comprise the stochastic elements of thesimulation. During simulation each operational turbine is given the chance to fail at each time step.At this point, the model cycles through the simulation schedule in a randomised order. For each timestep a random number between 0 and 1 is generated from a uniform distribution.
The performance of each component ican be represented by a binary indicator variable x
iwhere
if component is functioning, (6)
if component has failed
for i= 1, 2, ..., n, where nis the number of components in the system. Similarly, a binary variable
Ø denotes the state of the system.
if system is functioning, (7)
if system has failed
The reliability R, failure density fand time dependent failure rate λ of a system at time tare
(8)
(9)
(10)
In a series system, the system can function if and only if all components are in the functioning
state. Otherwise, the entire system fails. The series system does not imply physical seriesconnections of electrical or mechanical components. It refers to how such product failure dependson component failure. The reliability of a series system R
sat time tis
(11)
In a parallel system, the system fails if all components fail or the system performs satisfactorily
if at least one of the ncomponents performs satisfactorily which is also called redundancy. The
reliability of a parallel system Rpat time tis
(12)
3.3.1. Failure Rate Progress
At the beginning of a simulation, time steps of the first failures and the components that are failedfor each turbine are identified. After this stage, the analyses are continued separately for eachturbine. A CTV is allocated for the turbine which is failed first and the repair is performed. Thedetails related to repair strategy and CTV allocation will be given in the following sections. Whenthe failure is repaired and the time step at which the turbine starts functioning again is identified,x1,
0,i=⎧
⎨⎪
⎩⎪
 =1,
0,i∅⎧
⎨⎪
⎩⎪
Rt e()  =   (t) dtt
0λ−∫
f t dR t dt()  =  () /−
tRdR t
dt()  =  1
(t)()λ−
Rt e()  =  st
in
1i∏λ−
=
Rt R()  =  1 ( 1 )pi
im
1∏−−
=WIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 37
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
the failure rate of the failed component is reset to the beginning level, as the repaired component is
assumed ‘as good as new’ condition. Due to the fact that other components are remained untouchedwithin the repair period, the failure distributions of those components are shifted forward to the timestep which the turbine starts to function. Thus, the failure distributions of these componentscontinue from the level at which the failure has occurred; however the distribution of the failedcomponent is reset which requires an update on the system failure distribution regardless of whetherthe system is parallel or series.
In this respect, the failure distributions of the components and the system are updated and a new
Monte-Carlo simulation is run from the time step at which the turbine starts to function until the endof the simulation period through using the updated failure distribution of the system. As a result ofthe new simulation, the subsequent failure of the turbine is identified. If there is no subsequentfailure for that specific turbine or the time is not enough to repair the failure within the simulationperiod, the following failure type of that specific turbine is set to infinity (INF).
If there are multiple turbine failures on the same day of the simulations, those failures are
simulated separately. The simulations continue until all the subsequent failure types for allturbines are set to INF which is generally at the very end of the simulation period. Thedefinition of all the following failure types to INF indicates that either any new failure will notoccur after that specific time step or the current failures cannot be repaired which also meansthat a failure cannot occur because the situation of the turbine will not change from failed stateto functioning state.
3.3.2. Repair Strategy
The main concept of the repair strategy is, whilst examining the reliability at the component level,to structure the O&M activities at the wind farm level. Therefore, the characteristics of individualwind turbine components will play a key role in the reliability analyses; however final O&Mdecisions will be made by considering the offshore wind farm as a single unit.
When a failure occurs, the turbine is shut down and a crew, if available, is allocated to
perform the repair. If all crews are either occupied with repair operations or are not on duty, theturbine will remain down, and a crew will not be assigned until a team becomes available towork. When a crew becomes available and is assigned to conduct the repair work, that crew canonly be deployed to the failed turbine if the current weather conditions are within the turbineaccess limits as defined in the model inputs. If these conditions are not met, the crew remains atthe base and are only dispatched to the assigned turbine once the weather improves to within theaccess limits.
The time taken to repair the turbine, once the crew are in attendance, is determined by repair time
value specified for the failure. The model keeps track of the remaining repair time as the workprogresses. Once the repair is completed, the turbine is restarted. If during repair, weatherconditions worsen to a level beyond the specified turbine access limits; repair operations aresuspended and the crew returns to base. In this instance, the turbine concerned remains inoperative.However, the work which is already performed is logged, thus the remaining repair can becompleted in the following accessible day.
Scheduled maintenance is implemented by the crew members within the specified service
interval. Repair work takes precedence over scheduled maintenance, which is suspended if thecrews are required for repairs. If there is sufficient time to do scheduled maintenance after the repairwork, the crew stays in the wind turbine and continues with the scheduled maintenance. Like therepair works, scheduled maintenance is also logged for each individual turbine.
3.3.3. CTV and Technician Allocation
Depending on the environmental conditions on the repair day and the capabilities of the CTVs inthe vessel pool, more than one CTV can be available for the corrective maintenance task. In thiscase, there are number of priority checks which are illustrated in Figure 3. Theoretically, one CTVcan operate for an unlimited number of turbines in a single shift, however this situation does notrepresent reality; therefore a value is defined for limiting the number of visits that can be done byone CTV in a single shift. As in the number of visits for CTVs, theoretically the allocation of moretechnicians will lead to the completion of the repair in a shorter time period, however in reality thereis a maximum value, above which an increase in the number of technicians will not bring an38 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
advantage on the repair time. Therefore, two values are defined in order to represent the number of
technicians that will be allocated in two conditions,
•  minimum number of technicians that will be allocated in normal repair conditions
•  maximum number of technicians that will be allocated in order to reduce the repair time
and/or complete the repair in a single shift
The maximum number of technicians will be allocated unless the repair can be completed in a
single shift by the minimum number of technicians. If the repair task cannot be completed even bythe maximum number of technicians in a single shift, these technicians will be allocated to thatrepair task in the following repair days until the repair task is completed.
3.4. Power calculation block
The power calculation block will be driven by the climate data generation block and the failureanalyses block. Climate will influence the power production levels of wind turbines related to howhigh the wind speed is and repair strategy will affect the time steps that the turbines are in functionalor failed state. The outcome of the power generation block is the power produced in each time stepand the total generation of wind farm within the simulation period.
3.5. Cost calculation block
With regard to cost attributes for CTVs, fuel cost, technician cost and charter cost is calculatedwithin the analyses period and will be reflected on the total vessel cost and total O&M costvalues. The cost attributes are calculated individually for each fleet composition in eachsimulation and averaged when the simulations are completed. Daily charter rates of the vessels,technician salaries, repair cost of components, fuel cost, and electricity selling price are costelements which will be considered in the simulations. In addition different inflation rates can bedefined for each cost attribute, considering the fact that component prices may go down due totechnological development, on the other hand staffing cost may go up due to increase in thedemand for crews.WIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 39
Figure 3. CTV allocation
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Whilst the charter costs and the daily costs of technicians will be calculated for the entire
analyses period, regardless of the value of ‘travel time’ and ‘working time’, fuel costs will becalculated depending on the summation of ‘travel time’ for each day. It is important to highlight thatthe charter cost is paid to the vessel owner continuously, even though the utilisation level of thevessel is low. On the contrary, fuel cost is dependent on the distance and the number of O&Moperations.
4. CASE STUDY
To evaluate the accuracy of the proposed model, a case study is performed. In the simulations, thefleet compositions which are formed from 2 different CTVs are ranked. The fleet size which variesfrom 1 to 10 is evaluated in the calculations. In addition, 3 different operational wave height limitsare investigated for each CTV in order to assess the influence of operational capabilities of the CTVs.100 simulations are run for each 65 different fleet compositions in order to cover different variationsin the results due to the randomisation of variables in the Monte-Carlo simulation process.
Table 2 represents the specification of the CTVs that will be investigated in the simulations.
CTV-1 has higher operational capabilities than CTV-2, which results in higher daily charter ratepayments than CTV-2. Additionally, higher fuel consumption rate for CTV-1 influences the totalfuel cost.
The offshore wind turbine is considered to be structured from 12 different sub-components
which form a series turbine system (Table 3). The time required and the repair costs of thesecomponents are adapted from the studies done by Faulstich, et al. [44] and Poore and Walford [45].40 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
Table 2. CTV specifications
Specification CTV-1 CTV-2
Vessel Type Catamaran Catamaran
Length (m) 27 19.5Demi-hull Breadth (m) 2.95 2.52Draught (m) 1.75 1.5Displacement (tons) 135 65Speed (knots) 26 23Installed Power (kW) 1440 1006Op. Wave Height (m) 1.7-1.6-1.5 1.45-1.35-1.25Op. Wind Speed (m/s) 25 25Fuel Cons. (l/h) 384 200Charter rate (£/day) 3500 1750
Technician capacity 12 12
Table 3. Turbine components
No Component name Repair Time (days) Repair Cost (£)
1 Electrical system 0.17 555
2 Electronic control 0.15 41213 Sensors 0.16 12004 Hydraulic System 0.18 12765 Yaw System 0.16 5516 Rotor Hub 0.18 42887 Mechanical Brake 0.16 24058 Rotor Blades 0.18 181749 Gearbox 0.17 3243
10 Generator 0.15 1118911 Support & Housing 0.14 11189
12 Drive Train 0.17 13862
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Due to the fact that CTV operations will be simulated, it is important to identify the time
dependent rates for minor wind turbine failures. In this respect, Faulstich, et al. [44] investigated thefailure rates depending on the severity of the failures and presented constant rates for minor failures.In order to demonstrate the development and change of failure rates throughout simulation period,all the failure rates are modified to individual bathtub curve distributions which represent the infant,random, and wear-out failures through 2 parameter Weibull distributions.
Table 4 shows the scale 
λand shape kparameters associated with each component and the period
of lifetime. At this stage, it is important to highlight that the knowledge and experience related toreliability figures and the failure rates of offshore wind turbines are very limited, therefore, it shouldbe possible to utilise more accurate offshore wind failure rates in the future. The bathtub curves aregenerated by plotting the rate of early failures when first introduced, the rate of random failures withconstant failure rate during the components useful life, and finally the rate of wear-out failures asthe product exceeds its design lifetime (Figure A.1).
Table 5 shows the additional parameters which have to be defined before running the simulations.
As explained in the methodology section the number of technicians allocated to a failed turbinedepends on the time required for that repair and available weather window on the repair day.Therefore, 2 technicians will be allocated if the weather window is sufficient enough to be completedthe repair in a single shift. Otherwise, 4 technicians will be allocated to complete the repairs quicker.WIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 41
Table 4. Weibull distribution parameters
No Infant λ Infant k Random λ Random k Wear λ Wear k
1 0.2 0.7 6 1 13 5
2 0.37 0.75 10 1 13 43 0.37 0 1.25 1 13 04 0.4 0.43 5 1 13 45 0.9 0.41 4 1 16 46 0.9 0.41 4.8 1 16 47 0.5 0.29 4.8 1 16 48 0.5 0.29 8 1 16 49 0.7 0.2 20 1 15 3.5
10 0.8 0.3 20 1 16.5 511 0.8 0.5 30 1 19.8 12
12 0.3 0.15 50 1 20 11
Table 5. Additional parameters
Parameter Value
Electricity price £/kWh 0.1575
Turbine capacity (kW) 5000Number of turbines 100Distance to shore (nmiles) 20Observation point from sea level (m) 10Hub level from sea level (m) 100Wind shear component 0.1Regular number of technicians 2Maximum number of technicians 4Maximum turbine visits by single CTV 6Scheduled maintenance (manh/year) 80Annual salary of a technician (£) 50000Minimum working limit (h) 2Inflation rate (%/year) 5Fuel cost (£/lt) 0.9
Shift-start/ Shift-finish 8 a.m./8 p.m.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
For the cost calculations 5% inflation rate is considered, therefore electricity price, staff salaries, CTV
charter payments, and fuel cost will be increased each year within the simulations.
5. RESULTS
In this case study, the different CTV fleet compositions for an offshore wind farm which consists of100 ×5MW are examined. Figures A.3–A.6 present the mean of generated wind speed at 10 m height,
wind speed at hub height, wave period, and wave height datasets which are used in the simulations.The straight lines present the mean values of the original datasets. Through the climate datasetgeneration from original dataset, the estimated variations are achieved in the simulationsconsidering the general characteristics of the original observations.
In the methodology section, the failure rate update logic was introduced. The repair of a failure
leads to a reset for the failure rate of the failed component, and therefore an update in the systemfailure rate. Figure A.2 demonstrates the failure rate development of 1 sample turbine and itscomponents within 1 simulation. Due the variations in the failure timings, all the turbines havedifferent failure development curves within simulations. The sharp increments denote that there wasa failure on that component, the repair was completed and therefore the failure rate of the failedcomponent was reset. It can be seen that the electrical system failures occurred more frequently thanothers. On the other hand, drive train which has the lowest failure rate failed only 1 time within20 years. With regard to sensors, it was assumed that this component has a constant failure rate;therefore it not possible to identify the number of failures from Figure A.2.
Figures 4–11 present the core outputs of this study. The values on the radial axes show the
composition of fleet in the polar charts. The first value symbolises the number of CTV-1s in the fleet,and the second value symbolises the number of CTV-2s. The values on vertical axes show thecalculated parameters associated with each fleet composition.
With regard to the total fuel cost, it can be recognised that the total fuel cost is not increasing
proportional to the fleet size, but there are significant increases on the total fuel cost when the fleetsare composed of only CTV-1 (Figure 4). Due to the fact that the CTV with higher fuel consumptionis only available in these particular fleet compositions, there is no cheaper alternative to CTV-1.42 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
Figure 4. Total fuel cost for each fleet composition
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
For other fleets, there is an alternative to CTV-1; therefore, the repair task can be completed by a
CTV-2 which has a significantly lower fuel consumption. When different operational limitations areconsidered, higher operability increases the number of days that the wind farm is accessible;therefore the fleets with 1.7 m and 1.45 m operational wave height limits have better capability toperform the repairs which increases the number of visits done by CTVs. Therefore, the fleets withhigher capability results in higher fuel cost during lifecycle of the project.
The total staff cost is directly proportional to the number of CTVs in the fleet composition; therefore
when a new CTV is added to the composition regardless of its capabilities, the staff costs are increased(Figure 5). The total CTV charter cost is again very much dependent on the number of CTVs in the fleetcomposition, however, the daily charter rates of these vessels are also a significant element in the charterpayments of the overall fleet (Figure 6). Due to the fact that the daily charter cost of CTV-1 is higherthan CTV-2, the fleets, which have a higher number of CTV-1s in the composition, cause higher charterpayment within a simulation period. The staff and CTVs are paid regardless of the fleet utilisation,therefore the graphs intersect for these cost attributes under different operational limitations.
The total Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) cost is dependent on the failure rates of the
system and its components (Figure 7). However, the reaction time influences the number of hoursthat the components are in a functioning state. In this respect, the failures occur more frequently ifthe turbines are kept more in the functioning state. For instance, if a turbine is not repaired after thefirst failure for the entire simulation period, the OEM cost for that turbine will be 0; however thatturbine will never function again. Therefore, the increase in the fleet size and the improvement inthe operability increases the OEM costs.
The total O&M cost comprises of the total fuel cost, the total CTV charter cost, the total staff
cost, and the total OEM cost. In this case, CTV charter costs are the most dominant factor by47.01% in the total O&M cost distribution. Fuel cost, staff cost, and OEM costs contribute 1.36%,30.20%, and 21.41%, respectively.
Total power generation, availability and total revenue figures have similar outlines, because
all these parameters are directly proportional to the number of hours that the wind turbines are ina functioning state (Figure 8-10). The fact that the higher number of CTVs brings flexibility toWIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 43
Figure 5. Total staff cost for each fleet composition
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
44 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
Figure 6. Total CTV charter cost for each fleet composition
Figure 7. Total OEM cost for each fleet composition
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
WIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 45
Figure 8. Total generated power for each fleet composition
Figure 9. Availability for each fleet composition
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
46 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
Figure 10. Total revenue for each fleet composition
Figure 11. Loss revenue/kWh for each fleet composition
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
the O&M activities; total power generation, availability which is a function of power generation
and theoretical power generation, and total revenue which is a function of total power generationand electricity selling price have increasing trend proportional to the size of fleet. Theimprovement in the operability also increases the power generation, availability and total revenueof the projects.
The final decision can be made by assessing loss revenue/kWh values in Figure 11. In the loss
revenue cost/kWh calculation, all the cost and power production aspects are taken into account.These values include the power production improvement and the cost variation with the fleet sizechange. A significant decrease in loss of revenue can be noticed when a new CTV-1 joins the fleet;on the contrary when a new CTV-2 joins the fleet, the cost values increase gradually. When the bestconfigurations are identified as in Table 6 and Table 7, the rankings show that CTV-2 is not as costeffective as CTV-1, despite CTV-1 being more expensive to charter. The CTVs with the lowestoperational wave height limit require relatively larger fleet compositions. This is due to the fact thatwhen a 5 MW turbine is taken into account, 1 day downtime costs £10,000 – £19,000 revenue losswhich is substantially higher compared to the maintenance costs. The influence of operability canbe noticed when the rankings assessed in Table 7. When all the Hs categories are consideredtogether, the best 10 fleet compositions have the highest operational capabilities. In addition, theimprovements on the operability of the vessels leads to smaller technician teams and fleets whichalso decrease the economic risks.WIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 47
Table 6. The best fleet configurations within each H slimit category
Hs limits
Fleet composition Fleet composition Fleet composition
CTV-1 CTV-2 CTV-1 CTV-2 CTV-1 CTV-2 
(1.7 m) (1.45 m) (1.6 m) (1.35 m) (1.5 m) (1.25 m)
No
13 0 3 04 0
22 0 4 05 032 1 3 13 043 1 4 14 154 0 5 06 062 2 2 13 173 2 3 25 184 1 2 04 292 3 2 23 2
10 5 0 4 2 7 0
Table 7. The best fleet configurations within all categories
No Hs limits CTV-1 CTV-2 Loss revenue/kWh
1 1.7 m – 1.45 m 3 0 £0.0230
2 1.7 m – 1.45 m 2 0 £0.02313 1.7 m – 1.45 m 2 1 £0.02364 1.7 m – 1.45 m 3 1 £0.02375 1.7 m – 1.45 m 4 0 £0.02386 1.7 m – 1.45 m 2 2 £0.02397 1.7 m – 1.45 m 3 2 £0.02438 1.7 m – 1.45 m 4 1 £0.02449 1.7 m – 1.45 m 2 3 £0.0246
10 1.7 m – 1.45 m 5 0 £0.0247
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
6. CONCLUDING REMARKS
In this study, an extensive CTV fleet selection methodology is introduced for offshore wind farmO&M activities towards optimum O&M cost, minimum revenue loss, and maximum electricitygeneration. Climate parameters, failure characteristics of turbine components, the specification ofcrew transfer vessels and the composition of vessel fleet are simulated within the operational phaseof an offshore wind farm. The results are demonstrated to support the decision making related to themaintenance and logistic strategy. The consequences of different decisions can be assessed and theCTV fleet, which brings financial and operational benefits, can be selected.
It is envisaged that a CTV with better capability brings great financial and operational
advantages, even though that CTV has higher daily operating expenditures (OPEX) cost. Increasingthe size of the CTV fleet does not always bring an economic advantage due to the fact that the costincrease cannot be compensated by the production increase if the CTV fleet becomes larger than theoptimum level. The capability and operational limitations of the CTVs are also important attributeswhich significantly influence the fleet size. Therefore, offshore wind farm operators should considernew generation CTVs, which have higher operational capabilities, while organising their O&Mfleets.
7. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Results were obtained using the EPSRC funded ARCHIE-WeSt High Performance Computer(www.archie-west.ac.uk). EPSRC grant no. EP/K000586/1.
REFERENCES
[1] WindPower Offshore, Global Offshore-Special Report , 2012, London, UK, 1–32.
[2] Fingersh, L., Hand, M., and Laxson, A., Wind Turbine Design Cost and Scaling Model , 2006,
National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
[3] Junginger, M., Faaij, A., and Turkenburg, W.C., Cost reduction prospects for the offshore
wind energy sector, Wind Engineering , 2004, 28 (1), 97–118.
[4] Krohn, S., Morthorst, P.-E., and Awerbuch, S., The Economics of Wind Energy , 2009,
EWEA, Brussels.
[5] Morgan, C., Scott, N.C., and Snodin, H.M., Economies of Scale, Engineering Resource and
Load Factors , 2003, London, UK.
[6] Gellatly, B., Operations & Maintenance Special Report , 2013, WindPower Offshore,
London, UK.
[7] WindPower Offshore, Vessels and Access, Special Report , 2013, London, UK.
[8] Evans, T., Proven Operations and Maintenance Strategy, Technology and Equipment
Demanded by Wind Operators, Wind Energy Update , 2010.
[9] Andrawus, J.A., Watson, J., Kishk, M., and Gordon, H., Optimisation of Wind Turbine
Inspection Intervals, Wind Engineering , 2008, 32 (5), 477–490.
[10] Nielsen, J.J. and Sorensen, J.D., On risk-based operation and maintenance of offshore wind
turbine components, Reliability Engineering & System Safety , 2011, 96 (1), 218–229.
[11] Yan-ru, W. and Hong-Shan, Z., Optimization maintenance of wind turbines using Markov
decision processes, International Conference on Power System Technology (POWERCON) ,
2010, 1–6.
[12] Eunshin, B., Ntaimo, L., and Yu, D., Optimal Maintenance Strategies for Wind Turbine
Systems Under Stochastic Weather Conditions, IEEE Transactions on Reliability , 2010, 
59 (2), 393–404.
[13] Lazakis, I., Turan, O., and Rosendahl, T., Modelling of vessel and equipment cost for the
maintenance activities of an offshore tidal energy array, Proceedings of the PRADS2013 ,
Changwon City, Korea, 2013.
[14] Lazakis, I., Turan, O., and Rosendahl, T., Risk assessment for the installation and
maintenance activities of a low-speed tidal energy converter, Marine & Offshore Renewable
Energy Conference , London, UK, 2012.48 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
[15] Wiggelinkhuizen, E., Verbruggen, T., Braam, H., Rademakers, L., Xiang, J., and Watson, S.,
Assessment of condition monitoring techniques for offshore wind farms, Journal of solar
energy engineering , 2008, 130 (3), 030301.1–031020.12.
[16] Hameed, Z., Ahn, S.H., and Cho, Y .M., Practical aspects of a condition monitoring system
for a wind turbine with emphasis on its design, system architecture, testing and installation,Renewable Energy , 2010, 35 (5), 879–894.
[17] Verbruggen, T.W., Wind Turbine Operation & Maintenance based on Condition Monitoring ,
2003, 39.
[18] Ribrant, J. and Bertling, L.M., Survey of Failures in Wind Power Systems With Focus on
Swedish Wind Power Plants During 1997–2005, IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion ,
2007, 22 (1), 167–173.
[19] Smolders, K., Long, H., Feng, Y ., and Tavner, P., Reliability analysis and prediction of wind
turbine gearboxes, European Wind Energy Conference , 2010.
[20] Haitao, G., Xianhui, Y ., Jianping, X., and Watson, S., Wind turbine availability analysis
based on statistical data, International Conference on Sustainable Power Generation and
Supply , 2009, 1–6.
[21] Tavner, P., Offshore Wind Turbines: Reliability, availability and maintenance , The Institution
of Engineering and Technology, London, UK, 2012.
[22] Arwade, S.R., Lackner, M.A., and Grigoriu, M.D., Probabilistic models for wind turbine and
wind farm performance, Transactions of the ASME-N-Journal of Solar Energy Engineering ,
2011, 133 (4), 041006.
[23] Arifujjaman, M., Iqbal, M.T., and Quaicoe, J.E., A comparative study of the reliability of the
power electronics in grid connected small wind turbine systems, Canadian Conference on
Electrical and Computer Engineerings , 2009, 394–397.
[24] Underbrink, A., Hanson, J., Osterholt, A., and Zimmermann, W., Probabilistic Reliability
Calculations for the Grid Connection of an Offshore Wind Farm, International Conference
on Probabilistic Methods Applied to Power Systems , 2006, 1–5.
[25] Bertling, L., Allan, R., and Eriksson, R., A reliability-centered asset maintenance method for
assessing the impact of maintenance in power distribution systems, IEEE Transactions on
Power Systems , 2005, 20 (1), 75–82.
[26] Brown, R.E. and Taylor, T.M., Modeling the impact of substations on distribution reliability,
IEEE Power Engineering Society 1999 Winter Meeting , 1999, 349–354.
[27] Spinato, F., Tavner, P.J., van Bussel, G.J.W., and Koutoulakos, E., Reliability of wind turbine
subassemblies, IET Renewable Power Generation , 2009, 3 (4), 387–401.
[28] Faulstich, S., Hahn, B., Lyding, P., and Tavner, P., Reliability of offshore turbines–
identifying risks by onshore experience, Proc. European Offshore Wind , 2009, 14–16.
[29] Utne, I.B., Maintenance strategies for deep-sea offshore wind turbines, Journal of Quality in
Maintenance Engineering , 2010, 16 (4), 367–381.
[30] El-Thalji, I., On the operation and maintenance practices of wind power asset: A status
review and observations, Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering , 2012, 18 (3),
232–266.
[31] Gualtieri, G. and Secci, S., Methods to extrapolate wind resource to the turbine hub height
based on power law: A 1-h wind speed vs. Weibull distribution extrapolation comparison,Renewable Energy , 2012, 43 (0), 183–200.
[32] Lackner, M.A., Rogers, A.L., Manwell, J.F., and McGowan, J.G., A new method for
improved hub height mean wind speed estimates using short-term hub height data,Renewable Energy , 2010, 35 (10), 2340–2347.
[33] Gryning, S.E., Batchvarova, E., Brummer, B., Jorgensen, H., and Larsen, S., On the
extension of the wind profile over homogeneous terrain beyond the surface boundary layer,WIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 49
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Boundary-Layer Meteorology , 2007, 124 (2), 251–268.
[34] Fırtın, E., Güler, Ö., and Akdağ, S.A., Investigation of wind shear coefficients and their
effect on electrical energy generation, Applied Energy , 2011, 88 (11), 4097–4105.
[35] Manwell, J.F., McGowan, J.G., and Rogers, A.L., Wind energy explained : theory, design
and application , 2nd edn., John Wiley, Chichester, UK, 2009.
[36] Bechrakis, Bechrakis, D.A., Sparis, and Sparis, P.D., Simulation of the Wind Speed at
Different Heights Using Artificial Neural Networks, Wind Engineering , 2000, 24 (2),
127–136.
[37] Burton, T., Jenkins, N., Sharpe, D., and Bossanyi, E., Wind Energy Handbook , 2nd edn.,
Wiley, Oxford, UK, 2011.
[38] Helm, G., Systematische Propulsions-Untersuchungen von Kleinschiffen (Systematic
investigations propulsion of small ships) , Forschungszentrum des Deutschen Schiffbaus
(Research of the German Shipbuilding), Hamburg, Germany, 1980.
[39] Moody, R., Preliminary Power Prediction During Early Design Stages Of A Ship , PhD, Cape
Technikon, 1996.
[40] MAN Diesel & Turbo, Basic Principles of Ship Propulsion , 2011, Copenhagen, Denmark.
[41] Jinkine, V . and Ferdinande, V ., A method for predicting the added resistance of fast cargo
ships in head waves, International Ship Building Progress , 1973, 21 (238).
[42] Berlekom, W.B.v., Tragardh, P., and Dellhag, A., Large tankers - Wind coefficients and speed
loss due to wind and sea , Royal Institution of Naval Architects, 1974.
[43] Berlekom, W.B.v., Wind Forces on Modern Ship Forms – Effects on Performance,
Transactions of the North East Institute of Engineers and Shipbuilders , 1981, 97 (4).
[44] Faulstich, S., Hahn, B., and Tavner, P.J., Wind turbine downtime and its importance for
offshore deployment, Wind Energy , 2011, 14 (3), 327–37.
[45] Poore, R. and Walford, C., Development of an Operations and Maintenance Cost Model to50 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
Figure A.1: Updated time dependent failure rates for offshore wind turbine system and components
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
WIND ENGINEERING V olume 39, No. 1, 2015 51
Figure A.2. Updated time dependent failure rates for offshore wind turbine system and components
Figure A.3. Mean wind speed at 10m height for original and generated datasets
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
52 Investigation of Optimum Crew Transfer Vessel Fleet for Offshore
Wind Farm Maintenance Operations
Figure A.6. Mean wave height for original and generated datasetsFigure A.4. Mean wind speed at hub height for original and generated datasets
Figure A.5. Mean wave period for original and generated datasets
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
