/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046Citation: Li, J.; Li, Z.; Jiang, Y.;
Tang, Y. Typhoon Resistance Analysis
of Offshore Wind Turbines: A Review.
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451. https://
doi.org/10.3390/atmos13030451
Academic Editor: Alexander V .
Kislov
Received: 4 February 2022
Accepted: 7 March 2022
Published: 10 March 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
atmosphere
Review
Typhoon Resistance Analysis of Offshore Wind T urbines:
A Review
Jiawen Li1, Zhenni Li1, Yichen Jiang2,* and Yougang Tang3,*
1College of Navigation, Dalian Maritime University, Dalian 116026, China; lijiawen@dlmu.edu.cn (J.L.);
jenny08_31@dlmu.edu.cn (Z.L.)
2School of Naval Architecture, Dalian University of Technology, No. 2 Linggong Road, Dalian 116024, China
3School of Civil Engineering and Architecture, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300354, China
*Correspondence: ycjiang@dlut.edu.cn (Y.J.); tangyougang@tju.edu.cn (Y.T.)
Abstract: A typhoon is a tropical cyclone in the western Paciﬁc Ocean and the China seas. Typhoons
are some of the most destructive natural disasters on Earth. In China, typhoons have had major
impacts on the stability and structural integrity of offshore wind turbines in the complex and harsh
marine environment. In this research, ﬁrst, the main causes of wind turbine damage were analyzed
based on the characteristics of a typhoon and a wind turbine structure for typical typhoon-induced
accidents. Second, the research progress of the anti-typhoon design of offshore wind turbines and
the anti-typhoon strategy of wind farms operation and maintenance was summarized. Finally, the
problems to be further solved in these research ﬁelds were presented to provide references for the
development of offshore wind turbines, in particular, ﬂoating wind turbines in typhoon-prone areas.
Keywords: offshore wind turbine; structural damage; typhoon resistance design and strategy
1. Introduction
As an emerging renewable energy industry, offshore wind energy has gradually be-
come an important supplement to fossil fuel due to its great utilization potential, high-level
resources, and stable output [ 1,2]. Through technology innovations and scale production,
the competitive advantage of wind power continues to build throughout the world. Ac-
cording to the Global Wind Report 2021 [ 3], total offshore wind capacity has now passed
35 GW , representing 4.8% of the total global cumulative wind capacity. In 2020, the offshore
wind power industry added 6.1 GW of new installations worldwide. China, as a major
force in the global offshore wind market, accounted for half of all new global offshore wind
installations in this record year. To reach the targets of carbon peaking before 2030 and
carbon neutrality by 2060 established by the Chinese government, accelerating the develop-
ment and utilization of offshore wind energy has become imperative for accelerating the
energy transition, tackling climate change, and achieving low carbon emission reduction.
China is rich in offshore wind energy resources. According to the assessment con-
ducted by the China Meteorological Administration, the offshore wind energy at water
depths of 5–25 m is approximately 200 GW, and the offshore wind energy at water depths
of 5–50 m is approximately 500 GW. With the increasing ceiling for shallow-water wind
development, the development of long-distance deep water offshore wind is planned.
The advantages of a deep-sea location over offshore shallow water are prominent: the
steady and strong deep-sea winds generate more electricity and do not affect the operation
of shallow water ﬁshing, aquaculture, or other related industries [ 4]. Nevertheless, the
geotechnical conditions of the seabed in different parts of China vary considerably, from
soft clays to hard rock, requiring a greater variety of piling techniques [ 5]. Therefore, it
is more necessary for China to actively explore and reserve technologies in the ﬁeld of
deep water ﬂoating wind power. At present, ﬂoating wind turbines have become the most
active ﬁeld of international wind technological innovation. According to the Carbon Trust’s
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451. https://doi.org/10.3390/atmos13030451 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/atmosphere
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 2 of 19
Second Phase Summary Report on the Floating Wind Combined Industry Project [ 6], global
ﬂoating wind power is expected to increase by 10.7 GW by 2030. By 2040, 70 GW of ﬂoating
offshore wind power is expected to be installed worldwide.
However, many uncertain risk factors produced by complex and harsh marine envi-
ronmental conditions pose great challenges to the development and utilization of wind
power and the operation and maintenance of wind turbines in China. Compared with
onshore wind energy, offshore wind turbines are more susceptible to extreme weather, such
as typhoons [ 7]. Most of the severe typhoons in the world are generated in the Paciﬁc Ocean,
and gradually strengthen in the process of moving toward the north, northwest, west, or
northeast directions. The northwest Paciﬁc Ocean has the highest frequency of typhoons in
the world, and China has the most typhoons landing in the world [ 8]. Typhoons can induce
strong wind, heavy rain, huge waves, and storm surges. The intense effects of typhoons
signiﬁcantly increase the vulnerability of coastal cities and constructions, which has become
one of the most important control factors for the safety and applicability of engineering
structures. Therefore, typhoons have become the main and unique environmental factor
restricting the development of China’s offshore wind power [ 9]. The innovation in typhoon
resistance has increased in recent years. With this background, ﬁrst, this study introduces
the damage to the wind farms in China from typhoons. Second, the failure modes of
each component of the wind turbine are analyzed based on the typical typhoon-induced
failure events. Then, the anti-typhoon research on different wind turbine components
and the strategy of the operation and maintenance of wind farms are reviewed. Finally,
research advances and the problems in the ﬁeld are presented. The purpose of this study is
to provide some references and suggestions for anti-typhoon research for offshore wind
power in typhoon-prone areas.
2. Impacts of Typhoons
A typhoon is a mesoscale atmospheric vortex system in the western Paciﬁc Ocean and
China seas. A typhoon has winds measuring greater than 32.7 m/s. According to the na-
tional classiﬁcation of the tropical cyclones of China (GBT 19201-2006) [ 10] shown in Table 1 ,
tropical cyclones are classiﬁed as follows. (1) Because the cut-off speed of an offshore wind
turbine is 25 m/s, a low-grade tropical cyclone, that is, a tropical depression (TD) or tropical
storm (TS), can result in additional power generation for wind turbines; thus, this type of
cyclone is categorized as an “economic tropical cyclone.” (2) For a severe tropical storm
(STS), wind turbines should be parked and defended, so an STS is called a “defensive tropi-
cal cyclone.” (3) Once a tropical cyclone intensiﬁes into a typhoon (TY), severe typhoon
(STY), or super typhoon (Super TY), it will produce the devastating destruction of wind
turbines, so this type of cyclone is classiﬁed as a “destructive tropical cyclone.”
Table 1. Classiﬁcation of tropical cyclones.
Classiﬁcation Wind Speed Wind Strength
Tropical depression (TD) 10.8–17.1 6–7
Tropical storm (TS) 17.2–24.4 8–9
Severe tropical storm (STS) 24.5–32.6 10–11
Typhoon (TY) 32.7–41.4 12–13
Severe typhoon (STY) 41.5–50.9 14–15
Super typhoon (Super TY) 51.0 or higher 16 or higher
China is hit by typhoons with great frequency each year. Along the coastalline of
nearly 20,000 km in China, the provinces with the most wind energy resources are all
located in the active typhoon region [ 11]. The most vulnerable coastal areas for super
typhoons are Guangdong, followed by Hainan Taiwan, Zhejiang, and Fujian [ 8]. Typhoons
threaten the stability and structural integrity of offshore wind turbines with events such as
serious blade damage, tower collapse, and foundation overturning [ 12]. China’s coastal
wind farms are repeatedly struck by typhoons, resulting in huge economic losses. Wind
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 3 of 19
turbines in coastal wind farms have suffered particularly severe structural failures due to
typhoons, as shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Structural failures of wind turbines caused by typhoons in recent years.
Year Typhoon Wind Farm/Province Main Failure Modes
2003 Dujuan Honghaiwan/Guangdong Blade damage, 9
2006 Saomai Hedingshan/ZhejiangBlade damage, 15
Tower collapse, 3
Foundation overturned, 2
2010 Megi Liuao/FujianBlade damage, 1
Tower collapse, 1
2013 Usagi Honghaiwan/GuangdongBlade damage, 11
Tower collapse, 8
2014 Rammasun Warriors/GuangdongBlade damage, 15
Tower collapse, 13
2014 Rammasun Wenchang/HainanBlade damage, 2
Tower collapse, 1
2018 Maria Dajing/FujianTower collapse, 1
Blade damage, 1
2018 Maria Lvxia/Fujian Tower collapse, 1
The damage to offshore wind turbines due to typhoons is mainly attributed to three
characteristics of a typhoon [ 13]. The ﬁrst characteristic is extreme wind speed. A typhoon
is a low-pressure system. With the action of horizontal pressure, the external airﬂow blows
to the typhoon center from all sides. Due to the effect of the Earth’s rotation in the north
of the equator, the airﬂow involved rotates counterclockwise, and the more the airﬂow
spins into the typhoon, the greater the tangential wind speed is. In the area where the
typhoon passes, the pressure curve is funnel shaped. With the sharp drop and rise in the
pressure, the wind direction changes from northeast to south and southwest. The closer
the center of a typhoon, the greater the wind speed. The wind speed drops sharply as
the eye passes, then increases again 10 min to 30 min later (depending on the size and
speed of the eye), and slowly decreases as the typhoon moves away. The most intense
and concentrated area of a typhoon is the cloud wall area, with a width of 10–20 km at the
edge of the eye, as shown in Figure 1. Usually, the north wind speed is the strongest at the
moment before the eye of a typhoon arrives. The wind load acting on the wind turbine
is proportional to the square of the wind speed. Once the wind speed is greater than the
designed limit of the wind turbine, some accidents may occur. The second characteristic
is the sharp change in the wind direction. When the typhoon center passes through, the
angle of the wind direction changes by more than 45in a short time (less than 6 h), and
the wind near the center will even change by 120–180. For a wind turbine that has been
shut down and feathered, the sudden change of the wind direction means that the main
wind direction shifts from the front of the wind motor to the side and rear, and the wind
area changes accordingly. The third characteristic is the dramatic turbulence intensity. The
turbulence intensity is the ratio of the standard deviation of the turbulent wind speed in
10 min to the mean wind speed in the same period, which reﬂects the amplitude of the
random variation of the wind speed. The turbulence intensity in the process of the typhoon
has unique characteristics that are related to the distance from the typhoon center. The
closer the distance is to the typhoon center, the more the abnormal turbulence phenomena
that occur. Strong turbulence will force the rotor mechanism of the wind turbine to vibrate
randomly, which will cause serious damage.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 4 of 19
Figure 1. Structure of a typhoon.
Field measurement [ 14,15] and numerical simulation [ 16,17] are the common ap-
proaches to investigate the typhoon wind characteristics, such as wind proﬁle, gust factor,
mean velocity, turbulence intensity and scale, spatial correlation and coherence, probability
density function, power spectrum, and so on. The conventional wind tunnel test is another
approach; however, it is difﬁcult to accurately simulate the characteristic of typhoons [ 18].
The numerical simulation is ﬂexible and efﬁcient. However, the results are sensitive to
the user-deﬁned computational parameters, the setting of boundary conditions, and the
reliability of numerical codes. In addition, the simulation results need to be validated by
the ﬁeld measurements [ 19]. So far, the ﬁeld measurement is considered to be the direct
and reliable solution for obtaining the typhoon wind characteristics [20].
Furthermore, the devastating impacts of typhoons on offshore wind turbines are due
not only to wind power, but also to the superimposed coupling effect of large waves caused
by typhoons. In the initial stage of a typhoon, although there is a large wind speed on the
surface of the sea, the wave height is not high. At this stage of development, the wave
height also increases with the increase in the typhoon wind speed. When the typhoon
reaches the mature stage, the wind speed no longer increases, and the range of strong
wind gradually expands outward. In this stage, the wave height is also grown sufﬁciently,
while the scope of the giant wave region is expanded to the speriphery of the typhoon.
When the typhoon weakens, the wind speed decreases, but the sea area affected by the
typhoon still has a large wave height. Eighty percent of the typhoons affecting China
can form a large wave with a height greater than 6 m [ 21]. Therefore, it is necessary to
investigate the motion response of offshore wind turbine foundations induced by typhoon
waves. The current data show that the typhoon wind data are adequate, and the simulation
methods of a typhoon wind ﬁeld are relatively mature. However, the research on the
environmental parameters and characteristics of typhoon waves is not comprehensive. In
particular, long-term wave data about the southeastern coast of China are lacking.
3. Failure Mechanism and Typhoon Resistance Design of Offshore Wind T urbine
An offshore wind turbine is a typical “top-heavy” structure, which has the charac-
teristics of a ﬂexible–rigid coupling, small damping, and weak vibration resistance. The
structural components of an offshore wind turbine are mainly categorized into the ﬁve
parts shown in Figure 2: blade, hub, nacelle, tower, and foundation [ 22]. Most wind tur-
bines have three blades. The size of the blades determines the power capacity of a wind
turbine. Blades are connected to the hub and can rotate the blade pitch angle using the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 5 of 19
pitch system in the hub. The nacelle is the protection of the core parts of the turbine, such
as the generator, gearbox, drive train, shafts, and control systems. The tower sits on a
supporting foundation and holds the weight of the turbine.
Figure 2. Components of an offshore wind turbine.
3.1. Blade
3.1.1. Failure Mechanism
The blade structure is generally formed by bonding the upper and lower shells with
speciﬁc airfoil and the blade beams bearing the main bending stress. Compared with the
foundation and the tower, the blade is the weakest part of a wind turbine, and also the
vulnerable part in typhoon conditions. When a typhoon occurs, the wind turbine stops
working, and the rotor speed is zero. Even if the blade can reduce the aerodynamic loads
through the pitch system, damage is always inevitable, ranging from noise pollution and
aerodynamic performance decreases to cracking or even fracturing.
The on-site photographs of the Honghaiwan wind farm (as shown in Figure 3) show
that super Typhoon Usagi caused the fracture at the load-carrying box beam of the blades.
Eleven blades of eight wind turbines were broken, and the blade azimuths of the damaged
wind turbines differed. In addition, there was no obvious crack near the damaged side of
the blade. The estimated maximum wind speed was 75.8 m/s during Typhoon Usagi, which
exceeded the design criterion. Thus, the main failure mode was a complete fracture [ 23].
During Typhoon Dujuan, the maximum instantaneous wind speed measured by the wind
turbine was 57 m/s, which was far lower than the designed wind of 70 m/s. However, nine
blades were damaged to different degrees. The failure was mainly due to the varying wind
direction. When the wind turbine entered the shutdown state, the yaw system stopped
working. After that, as the wind direction continued to change, the angle of attack on
the ﬁxed rotor blades became larger. At the same time, the wind speed further increased,
resulting in some blades being completely damaged and entering a state of severe torsional
ﬂutter. With the coupling action of the torque, shear force, and bending moment, the
blade with insufﬁcient torsional stiffness was buffeted by strong turbulence [ 24]. Similarly,
the wind turbines in the Changhua wind farm were able to withstand sustained wind
speeds above 70 m/s. However, seven blades were damaged by Typhoon Jangmi with the
maximum instantaneous wind speed of approximately 53.4 m/s. The blade damage mainly
resulted from the wing edge vibrations caused by vortexes through the local resonance
effect [ 25]. When Typhoon Megi hit the Liuao wind farm, the turbulence intensity was
over 0.3 and the inﬂow angle was over 20. Both of these values exceeded the design
limits [ 26]. Through the analysis of typical accidents, it can be seen that the aerodynamic
load caused by typhoons exceeds the design load of blades, which leads to blade failure.
Furthermore, with the development of large-scale wind turbines, the size of the blade
increases accordingly. The deﬂection under typhoon conditions will be greatly enlarged.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 6 of 19
The traditional static simulation method for wind loads may underestimate the typhoon
impacts on blades. Therefore, typhoon resistance research on blades should focus on
accurate and efﬁcient aerodynamic analysis tools.
Figure 3. Photograph showing blade damage due to Typhoon Usagi [23].
3.1.2. Simulation of Typhoon Aerodynamic Load
The blade element momentum (BEM) theory is generally used to study the aerody-
namic load of wind turbines. All of the current design tools, such as OpenFAST [ 27],
Bladed [ 28], HAWC2 [ 29], and OrcaFlex [ 30], employ the BEM theory for the calculation of
the aerodynamic loads on a rotor. Ren et al. [ 31] chose the representative truncated obser-
vation data for Typhoon Damrey to study the aerodynamic characteristics of offshore wind
turbine blades based on BEM theory. The results revealed that rapid wind speed change
easily caused the time lag of the variable speed and the collective pitch control system. Due
to the ﬂuctuations in the wind speed and the direction of typhoons, some scholars have
carried out research based on the computational ﬂuid dynamics (CFD) method to simulate
typhoon wind loads. Ren et al. [ 32] studied the inﬂuence of the different blade pitch
angles and wind directions of typhoons on the aerodynamic loads of wind turbine blades
based on the CFD method, and they revealed the most unfavorable blade position and the
corresponding blade wind load coefﬁcient with the impacts of typhoons. Yang et al. [ 33]
studied the characteristics of the aerodynamic loads acting on a wind turbine due to gusts
during Typhoon Jangmi. They suggested conducting an analysis of an idling wind turbine
under gust conditions in the typhoon-prone regions. Lian et al. [ 34] numerically simulated
the aerodynamic loads on blades with different wind directions based on the CFD method,
with consideration of the shutdown of the yaw system during a typhoon. Chen et al. [ 12]
calculated the local mean wind proﬁles at each turbine site using three-dimensional CFD
calculation considering the terrain topography of a wind farm reconstructed from global
positioning system (GPS) data.
The turbulence intensity and the turbulence integral scale in the whole process of a
typhoon from landing to departure are different [ 35]. Based on the measured data and with
consideration of the different characteristics of the typhoon transit process, Han et al. [36]
used the measured power spectrum and inverse Fourier transform to generate the ﬂuctuat-
ing wind ﬁeld. Wang et al. [ 37] established a wind ﬁeld simulation method for the whole
process of typhoon transit for a wind turbine and then used the spectral decomposition
method and the improved blade element momentum theory method to calculate the wind
load of a wind turbine.
Since it is difﬁcult for micro-scale CFD technology to reﬂect the complexity of typhoon
wind ﬁelds [ 38], mesoscale models, such as weather research and forecasting (WRF) were
applied to the study of typhoon wind turbines. These models can not only simulate the
wind speed, pressure, and temperature of a typhoon wind ﬁeld, but also account for the
development process of a typhoon. However, because the typhoon range is usually several
hundred kilometers, the wind grid resolution is usually at the level of kilometers, but the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 7 of 19
scale of the whole wind turbine system is only at the level of 100 m. Moreover, the mesh
size at the near-wall surface is usually at the millimeter level [ 39]. To accurately predict
the aerodynamic load on a wind turbine blade, it is necessary to combine the micro-scale
CFD method with a mesoscale model and to nest a small-scale wind ﬁeld in the wind
ﬁeld model. Ke et al. [ 40] proposed to use the WRF model to simulate typhoon “Nuri”
and ﬁt the near-surface wind proﬁle. A CFD model was used to simulate the ﬂow ﬁeld
around the wind turbine to analyze the aerodynamic response of the wind turbine with a
typhoon load.
In summary, the failure frequency of blades is the highest during typhoons. Blades
should not only have enough strength and stiffness to avoid fracture failure and shape
change under aerodynamic load, but also have enough stability to avoid natural resonance.
At present, in terms of the simulation of the wind loads on blades, the selection of environ-
mental conditions is mostly based on the annual extremum sampling method. The simple
selection of environmental parameters often results in either low design standards, leading
to the failure and destruction of structures under extreme sea conditions or unnecessary
resource waste due to design standards being too conservative. Considering the character-
istics of typhoons, the CFD method is needed to accurately calculate the load. In addition,
the aerodynamic characteristics of a typhoon in transit are different, so it is necessary to
consider the characteristics of different stages to simulate the wind ﬁeld. However, the
CFD method is extremely demanding in terms of computational resources. The diameter
of the wind wheel of a modern wind turbine has reached more than 100 m, while the scale
of the boundary layer on the blades is at the millimeter level. In addition, the short-term
prediction of the dynamic response of a wind turbine (the simulation time needs to be
more than 1 h) is required for the passage of typhoons, resulting in a large amount of CFD
calculation and a long calculation cycle. Therefore, it is necessary to study efﬁcient and
accurate typhoon aerodynamic load simulation methods.
3.2. Tower
3.2.1. Failure Mechanism
A tower is a typical high-rise structure. The shear force and bending moment at the
root are the largest. Usually, tower failures occur at the lower parts of a tower. The bearing
load is similar to the supporting foundation, but its stiffness is far less. Therefore, a tower
has relatively weak typhoon resistance.
The failure modes of tower collapse include excessive deformation, fatigue, fracture,
yielding, and plastic collapse [ 41]. When the load reaches the design limit, plastic de-
formation will occur. It was observed from the ﬁeld data of Typhoon Usagi passing the
Honghaiwan wind farm that (as shown in Figure 4) the tower was partially in the shape
of internal collapse, and the edge of the fold was torn. Most of the bolts connecting the
foundation ring were pulled off. The main failure mode was local inelastic buckling, due
to steel yielding. The failure position of the tower was between 0.2 and 0.22 of the tower
height, and the change in the wall thickness at this position led to the collapse of the
tower [ 42]. Similarly, in the Hedingshan wind farm hit by Typhoon Saomai, one of the
collapsed towers buckled at the welded joint of the tower cylinders where the ﬂanges were
distorted and the bolts were dragged out [ 13]. In addition, under extreme wind conditions,
the wind direction may change to the crosswind when a typhoon passes through a wind
farm, which has an important inﬂuence on tower stress. One of the damaged towers during
Typhoon Jangmi resulted from the crosswind actions, such as vortex shedding and wake
galloping [43].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 8 of 19
Figure 4. Photographs displaying tower damage due to Typhoon Usagi [ 23]: (a) tower collapse;
(b) buckling failure.
3.2.2. Typhoon Resistance Structural Analysis
The structural analysis of a tower is often conducted based on the ﬁnite element
method (FEM). Because of the installation of the heavy rotor and nacelle, a tower should
be considered a ﬂexible structure, and its deformation should be simulated. A tower is
modeled as a thin-walled cylinder with variable cross sections. According to the material
properties and cross-sectional dimensions, the bending stiffness of a tower can be calcu-
lated. The vibration modes and stresses are calculated in order to perform the failure
analysis. Taking a tower as a research object, Dai et al. [ 44] carried out a series of nonlinear
time–domain analyses and collapse simulations of the failure mode of a tower under the
shutdown condition. They concluded that the most plastic hinges occurred at the geometric
discontinuous points of the tower. Zhang et al. [ 45] veriﬁed through dynamic analysis that
tower buckling was the main failure mode for the wind turbine structure due to typhoon
damage, mainly because the bending moment generated by the wind turbine thrust, and
the gravity load of the wind turbine were superimposed to produce the combined bending
load, resulting in the excessive local stress of the tower wall. To eliminate the stress con-
centration at the junction of the tower and ﬂange ring, they proposed welding joints with
gradient thicknesses or bolts of sufﬁcient strength. In addition, Zhang et al. [ 46] proposed
and veriﬁed the feasibility of adopting a load reduction system to improve the mechanical
properties of the tower by studying the failure mechanism of the tower. As long as the
tower did not collapse, 80% of the wind turbine components were relatively safe. Based on
this, Li et al. [ 13] discussed the key role of the strict quality control on the tower welding
joints, ﬂanges, bolts, and other basic parts to avoid the corrosion of the parts after falling
off due to heavy rain, and they ﬁnally proposed the typhoon resistance design method for
the independent design of a tower.
To improve the typhoon resistance of a tower, many scholars have proposed typhoon
resistance design schemes based on the structure and material. Chen et al. [ 42] proposed
distinguishing between the failure safety factors of the blade and tower in the current IEC
design standard and gave priority to the strength of the tower in blade design. He et al. [47]
and Liu et al. [ 48] concluded that reinforced concrete was suitable material for tower design
because of its relatively large stiffness, large damping ratio, and good wind resistance.
Chou et al. [49] . deﬁned the risk level through risk matrix analysis. Then a variety of
protective strategies against damage were proposed. Given the high risk of “tower buckling”
and” bolt fracture,” it was proposed to thicken the tower wall, replace the strong bolt, and
increase the number of bolts to strengthen the joint. The solution provided by GE engineers
for the 4 MW typhoon-proof wind turbine is to construct the tower with thicker steel,
reinforcing the turbine against the stronger winds. Additionally, the turbine blades are
shortened, making them more robust and helping them stand up to higher wind speeds [ 50].
Based on the existing literature research, for the structural design of a tower in typhoon-
prone areas, wind tunnel tests or other appropriate analyses should be conducted to
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 9 of 19
determine the effects of the wind direction on the wind turbines. The radius and the
wall thickness of a tower should be large enough to provide sufﬁcient bending stiffness.
The strengths of the tower welding joints, ﬂanges, and bolts are important factors for the
buckling strength of a tower. However, this will inevitably lead to excess bearing capacity
in the typhoon-free season. The balance of security and economy is one of the key issues
that need to be considered comprehensively in tower design.
3.3. Foundation and Mooring System
3.3.1. Failure Mechanism
The foundation is the key structure supporting wind turbine operation, and foun-
dations can be divided into ﬁxed types and ﬂoating types. As shown in Figure 5, the
ﬁxed foundations include gravity, monopile, tripod, and jacket foundations. The ﬂoat-
ing foundations mainly include tension leg, semi-submersible, and Spar foundations (see
Figure 6 ). Spar and semisubmersible ﬂoating technology are the most mature and widely
used types of foundations. Given that the farther offshore the distance is, the stronger the
wind intensity, offshore wind power has been developed further from the shore and in
deeper water. However, when the water depth is greater than 60 m, the ﬁxed foundation
is no longer economically feasible in terms of the life cycle, power generation efﬁciency,
and cost effectiveness. In contrast, ﬂoating platforms, with the advantage of the ﬂexibility
to water depths, exponentially multiply the area of the ocean where wind power can be
deployed and have, thus, developed quickly around the world.
Figure 5. Bottom-ﬁxed offshore wind turbine foundations: ( a) gravity; ( b) monopile; ( c)tripod; and
(d) jacket.
For a ﬁxed foundation, the huge winds and waves brought by typhoons will result
in strong cyclic loads on the piles or the caissons. Large lateral deformations and even
overall overturning can consequently occur [ 51]. Based on the plastic reliability theory,
Zhu et al. [ 52] studied the offshore wind turbine structure reliability index change rule. It
was concluded that for the condition of the typhoon foundation structure, the failure mode
would develop from the single-mode damage for a variety of joint failure modes, and the
structure reliability would be signiﬁcantly affected by the foundation scour, the inﬂuence
of the biological growth, and structure of the corrosion.
For ﬂoating foundations, in addition to the marine environmental loads, these types of
foundations comply with the wave load as well as the huge thrust and overturning moment
of a wind turbine. Due to the super-large structural weight and its inertia effect, once the
foundation platform moves slightly, the wind turbine standing nearly 100 m away from the
water causes dramatic vibration. If this coincides with a typhoon, tsunami, earthquake, or
another type of natural disaster, it is very likely to cause local damage to the wind turbine
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 10 of 19
(such as blade fracturing or tower yielding), or even an overall overturn. Jonkman et al. [53]
compared and analyzed the inﬂuence of the ﬂoating platform movement on the bending
moment and fatigue load of the blade root and tower base of three different types of ﬂoating
wind turbines in the shutdown state of the ultimate sea state. Liu et al. [ 54] used FAST
software to calculate the motion of ﬂoating wind turbines and studied the reliability of
offshore wind turbine blades. The results showed that the failure probability of a blade
supported by a ﬂoating foundation is greater than that of a blade supported by a ﬁxed
foundation. Tanaka et al. [ 55]. performed a validation of the dynamic response of a 2 MW
hybrid-spar ﬂoating wind turbine during a typhoon using full-scale ﬁeld data. The results
showed that the consideration of the coherence of the wind was essential for the accurate
estimation of the dynamic response in a typhoon environment for a spar-type wind turbine.
Figure 6. Floating wind turbine concepts: ( a) tension leg; ( b) semi-submersible; and ( c) Spar.
In addition, the wave spectrum (mainly the JONSWAP spectrum) is mainly used to di-
rectly simulate the wind and waves in a ﬂoating wind turbine wave load simulation [56–58] .
The wave spectrum can be used to simulate waves with basic parameters, and then the
motion response and wave load of ﬂoating structures can be calculated. This indicates that
the shape and development of the wave spectrum can signiﬁcantly affect the prediction
results [ 59]. Additionally, the JONSWAP spectrum is derived from the long-term obser-
vation data of the waveﬁeld in the North Sea. Due to the differences in the water depth,
water temperature, and meteorological conditions, it is not completely appropriate to use
the JONSWAP spectrum directly to simulate the typhoon sea state in the South China Sea,
and the principal spectrum parameters need to be modiﬁed [ 37,56]. Moreover, the direct
parameterization of typhoon waves cannot fully reveal the dynamic mechanism. At present,
parameterization is mainly used to simulate the wind-wave dominant situation, which is
mostly used near the typhoon center but is not applicable to the entire typhoon wind-wave
ﬁeld. Under typhoon sea conditions, the characteristics of a wind wave, surge wave, and
mixed wave are obvious, and the dominant part of a surge wave must be considered. The
research results of many scholars around the world have veriﬁed this conclusion [ 60–64].
Chen et al. [ 65] applied the WAVEWATCH III wave model to analyze the distribution
characteristics of the surge and wind waves of Typhoon “Muifa,” and the characteristics of
the surge and wind waves were clear. Since ﬂoating wind turbines mostly use catenary
mooring positioning, they mainly have low-frequency motion. Taking the DeepCwind
semi-submersible wind turbine as an example, its natural frequencies of pitch, roll, and
heave are 0.06, 0.23, and 0.36 Hz, respectively [ 66]. Surges may cause substantial pitch
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 11 of 19
motion before a typhoon approaches, and the pitch and heave motion may be stimulated
when the typhoon center is close to the wind turbine. It can be seen that in the design,
a JONSWAP wave spectrum is simply selected as the sea condition to analyze the limit
response of the structure, and the extreme motion response may be ignored. Therefore, a
ﬂoating wind turbine designed in this way may have a structural failure during a typhoon,
resulting in huge economic losses. Therefore, to improve the prediction accuracy of the
environmental load and dynamic response of a ﬂoating wind turbine, the inﬂuence of the
wave evolution characteristics on the motion response of a ﬂoating wind turbine should be
considered in the simulation of the typhoon sea wave ﬁeld.
Due to the harsh ocean environment conditions, the strengths of mooring lines de-
crease with time, which increases the risk and positioning ability of a mooring system. After
the failure of a mooring cable, the response of a ﬂoating platform and wind turbine will be
different due to the mooring mode, mooring failure location, and different directions of the
environmental load. Large drift motion occurs, leading to collision risk in wind farms [ 37].
Because of the differences in the drift motion, and wind farm layout, it is proposed in
Ref. [67] that detailed simulation and tests of various failure situations are still needed.
3.3.2. Typhoon Resistance Design
The destruction of offshore wind turbines by typhoons has received increased at-
tention. Many studies on ﬂoating wind turbines have adopted typhoons as the survival
condition [4,68–70] . To improve the stability of a wind power system under typhoon sea
conditions, Liu et al. optimized and designed a new model combining a multi-segment
mooring line and an inclined column based on the DeepCwind ﬂoating platform by chang-
ing the connection mode of the mooring line and the structural form of a semi-submersible
platform [ 71]. By comparing the motion of the two models, the effectiveness of the new
model in reducing the pitch and heave motion of the semi-submersible platform was
veriﬁed. To mitigate the dynamic responses of the support foundation under extreme
winds, vibration control devices, such as tuned mass dampers (TMDs), were applied.
Lian et al. [72] proposed a new eddy current with a tuned mass damper (EC-TMD) system
to alleviate the structural vibrations of the offshore wind turbine supported by composite
bucket foundations. Barbanti et al. [ 73] conducted the optimization of the mooring system
of the Spar platform under harsh sea conditions. First, it was veriﬁed by numerical analysis
that the additional weight block of the mooring system had an obvious optimization effect
on the motion response of the Spar platform. Second, it was concluded that the mooring
tension and fatigue damage could be reduced when the fairlead was near the center of
mass, and then the pitching motion could be inhibited.
At present, global ﬂoating wind turbines have just entered the commercial stage, and
the ﬂoating wind turbines in China are still in the prototype validation stage. There are
few studies on the typhoon resistance design of a ﬂoating foundation. Future research
can focus on the following aspects: (1) The application of new simple materials, such as
concrete: First, this has great potential for industrialization through standardization and
mass fabrication. Ultimately, not all fabrication yards can complete the steel manufacturing
required by the ﬂoating foundation. Second, concrete is not sensitive to fatigue effects.
Third, concrete and other high-density, low-price ballast materials can effectively lower
the center of gravity, hence reducing steel consumption. (2) Given the fact that ﬂoating
wind turbines are far away from the shore, the long-distance transmission of electricity
should be noticed. However, the wind and rain brought by typhoons can cause damage to
power transmission lines. One of the important ways to avoid the loss of power for long-
distance transmission is to combine ﬂoating wind turbines with hydrogen production. This
combination can reduce the cost of wind farms, improve the utilization rate of wind power,
and help to determine a method for large-scale and diversiﬁed wind power development.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 12 of 19
3.4. Control System
The control system can collect the wind speed, wind direction, and vibration signals
in real time and carry out the blade pitching and yaw according to the dynamic response
and vibration characteristics. This plays an important role in avoiding resonance between
the wind turbine and the sea waves.
(1) Pitch control system: This system consists of pitch sensors, a computer-based or
microprocessor-based controller, and a pitch actuator. This system can stabilize the wind
turbine output power, increase the aerodynamic damping, and reduce the aerodynamic
load of the blades.
If the wind speed of the typhoon exceeds the design limit of the wind turbine, the
external pitching load may exceed the braking torque of the pitch system. At the same
time, after about 10 years of long operation, the wear of the pitch actuator will result in a
reduction in the braking torque. These two situations will lead to the failure of the brake
of the pitch actuator, thus causing the blade to leave the feathering state so that the rotor
starts to rotate until the serious consequences of rotor racing or tower collapse occur. After
typhoon Rammasun landed, the ﬁeld data of the Warrior wind farm showed that all the
nacelles of the damaged wind turbines faced the downwind direction, and the blades were
not at the feathered position. The insufﬁcient brake torque could not keep the blades locked
and the blades feathered, which led to the collapse. It could be seen that the braking of
the blade rotor mechanism was particularly important for the self-existing condition of
the storm. During Typhoon Saomai, the wind turbines were automatically shut down
due to strong winds and turbulence, and the yaw system failed due to power grid failure.
The failures of both the pitch system and the yaw system led to the blades being out of
control. It is important to increase the backup power and backup safety mechanism for
wind turbines to prevent a chain reaction caused by the failure of the rotor system [13,49].
(2) Yaw system: The yaw system is mainly composed of the yaw bearings, yaw
gearboxes, yaw motor drivers, encoders, wind vane, and main controller. The system is
designed to maximize the acquisition of wind energy. It can ensure that the rotor is facing
the wind. Under typhoon conditions, the wind turbine commonly adopts the method
of passive or active yaw to reduce the structural loads. Thus, the yaw drive and control
system should be improved in terms of the following aspects. The ﬁrst aspect is the high
reliability and appropriate redundancy measures. The second aspect is the provision of
enough torque to overcome the huge inertia and wind thrust of the nacelle and rotor when
yawing starts. The third aspect is that the yaw drive system should be able to provide
enough dynamic torque to prevent the overspeed or reverse yaw from occurring.
Ref. [ 74] showed that the duration of impact vibration induced by yaw was mainly
determined by the yaw amplitude and its variation. The yaw control could also effectively
weaken the wake effect, make the wake offset, and greatly reduce the negative effect
of severely weakening the power output of wind turbines [ 75]. Hallowell et al. [ 76]
established the structural failure probability model of offshore wind turbines with the
action of hurricanes and quantitatively studied the inﬂuence of the yaw control system
on the reliability of offshore wind turbines with the action of typhoons. The results
showed that the failure probability of nine single piles with a yaw control system was
7.310ˆ 10~3.410ˆ 4, while the failure probability of nine single piles without a yaw
control system was 1.5 10ˆ 7~1.610ˆ 3, with consideration of the combined action
of the wind and waves caused by the hurricane. This indicated that the yaw system is an
important structure for preventing the failure of the tower.
However, the frequent action of the yaw system is an important cause of wind turbine
failure [ 77]. Therefore, to reduce the yaw mechanism movement frequency to ensure that
the wind turbine has a certain adaptability, Jiao et al. [ 78] proposed an adaptive yaw control
strategy based on a Kalman ﬁlter. The digital simulation and ﬁeld test data showed that this
strategy improved the accuracy for the wind and enhanced the feasibility and effectiveness
of the electricity. Ben et al. [ 74] designed a variable structure model reference adaptive
speed discriminator to effectively identify the speed of the yaw motor of a wind turbine
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 13 of 19
and to optimize the anti-platform risk control strategy of the yaw system by establishing
a sensorless vector control system of the yaw motor. Tao et al. [ 79] designed a yaw drive
system and its control strategy based on a rectiﬁer and an inverter. The technical feasibility
of the scheme was veriﬁed with the yaw test platform. Li et al. [ 13] proposed that a
hydraulic brake mechanism should be used instead of a slider brake mechanism and that a
planetary gearbox should be used instead of a worm gearbox to avoid a yaw system failure
in a typhoon.
The aim of the control strategy is to reduce the load amplitude under typhoon condi-
tions and ensure the safe operation of a wind turbine. A yaw system can ensure that a wind
turbine can track the change of the wind direction in real time during a typhoon. Therefore,
always keeping a wind turbine in the yaw error range is the key to resisting typhoons.
Ref. [ 80] presented an active control strategy for large wind turbines for defense before a
typhoon. The control strategy embedded a series of targeted functions into the existing
mainstream control logic so that the wind turbine can effectively reduce the impact of the
typhoon on the unit through a series of actions, such as pre-typhoon preparatory action
and yaw control strategy during the typhoon. Bao et al. [ 81] established a rigid–ﬂexible
multi-body model to analyze the typhoon-induced dynamic response of a wind turbine
and discussed the inﬂuence of different yaw angle positions on the wind load and vibra-
tion characteristics of the structure. The results showed that when the yaw angles of the
wind turbine were 30and 120, the typhoon-induced wind load and the wind vibration
response of the structure were very signiﬁcant, and the adverse yaw condition needed to
be avoided in practical control. Ma et al. [ 82] and Garciano et al. [ 83] studied the failure
model and overall control strategy under extreme environmental loads. By analyzing the
aerodynamic characteristics of a wind turbine under a typhoon load, an active stopping
strategy was proposed. The active stopping strategy proposed by the latter study had the
goal of reducing the maximum aerodynamic response of a ﬂoating offshore wind turbine
system during typhoon events, while the former study was based on the yaw drive system
to further analyze and propose the optimal stopping position of a wind turbine. Through
comparative analysis of the ﬁeld data, He et al. [ 84] reported that the extreme difference of
the wind direction deviation angle in a nacelle was the main reason for the increase in the
load on a wind turbine. At the same time, considering the extreme wind speed and abrupt
wind direction, the authors proposed a combined control strategy to optimize the variable
pitch control and yaw control.
Based on the ﬁndings from previous work, the summary of the failure mechanism
of different wind turbine components due to typhoons is listed in Table 3. The design
implications to improve the typhoon resistance of the offshore wind turbine components
are also suggested.
Table 3. Summary of failure mechanism and design implications of the offshore wind turbine.
Wind T urbine Component Failure Mechanism Design Implications
BladeOverloading due to abnormal
characteristics of typhoonsAerodynamic shape
optimization; high reliable
numerical tool
TowerLocal inelastic buckling due to
steel yieldingStructural strengthening
Foundation and mooring
systemFix foundation: overall
overturning due to cyclic load;
Floating foundation; large
drift motion due to broken
mooring systemAccurate coupling dynamic
simulation tool considering
the whole process of typhoons
Control systemPower grid failure;
mechanical failureControl strategy optimization
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 14 of 19
4. Typhoon Resistance Strategy for Wind Farm Operation and Maintenance
An offshore wind farm has a harsh environment and is subject to such factors as salt
spray corrosion, large wave force, sea ice impact, and typhoon damage [ 21], resulting in the
high failure rate of wind turbines. In addition, the short operation window period due to
the inﬂuence of weather, the high cost of operation, and maintenance greatly increase the
operation and maintenance cost of offshore wind farms. The operation and maintenance
costs of offshore wind power are twice those of onshore wind power. The reduction in
the operation and maintenance costs of offshore wind farms is the key to improving the
efﬁciency and sustainable development of offshore wind farms. To achieve this goal, the
operation and maintenance mode of offshore wind farms requires a series of upgrades for
the software and hardware.
(1) Risk assessment. Risk assessment is one of the important ways to reduce damage
to wind turbines caused by environmental natural disasters. To establish a reliable
risk model, accurate simulations of the environmental loads, structural response,
and failure probability are critical. The presence of hurricanes (tropical cyclones in
the Atlantic Ocean) is a threat to the wind farms located on the Gulf and Atlantic
coasts of the U.S.A. Several studies about quantifying the effect of hurricanes on the
responses of offshore wind turbines have been performed. Kim and Manuel [ 85] de-
veloped a framework for the hurricane risk assessment of offshore wind turbines with
consideration of the spatial distribution of wind and wave ﬁelds and time–domain
simulations of turbulent winds and irregular waves. Rose et al. [ 86] proposed a
probabilistic model to estimate the number of offshore wind farm turbines that would
be destroyed by hurricanes and the safety risk index for four representative offshore
wind farms along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Mardfekri and Gardoni [ 87] developed
a probabilistic framework for the assessment of offshore wind turbines subjected to
both hurricanes and earthquakes, including soil–structure interaction. Furthermore,
Hallowell et al. [ 88]. proposed a methodology for estimating the probability of off-
shore wind turbine support structure failure due to hurricanes with consideration
of the site-speciﬁc design of the support structure, the spatial variability in the wind
and wave ﬁelds appropriate for hurricanes, the effect of changing the water depth
within a wind farm, the effect of breaking waves, and structural fragility estimation
based on relevant structural experiments. These risk quantiﬁcation frames can be
applied to the quantitative measurements of the risk to offshore wind turbines from
typhoons. Li et al. [89] assessed the risk imposed by a tropical cyclone to wind farms
for a selected southeast coastal region of China by employing a synthetic full track
tropical cyclone simulation to generate a large dataset of statistically representative
tropical cyclone events. A probabilistic framework was set up to quantify the tropical
cyclone-induced risk of offshore wind farms.
(2) Periodic inspection and maintenance. Structural vibration monitoring and operational
modal analysis are important ways to control the operational behavior and structural
safety of offshore wind turbines. Dong et al. [ 90] discussed the structural response
regular pattern and vibration safety under three typhoon conditions for the structural
vibration displacement signals of one Chinese offshore wind power prototype. The
data showed that the structural vibration was mainly affected by the rotation speed
rather than the wind speed. A wind turbine should be monitored for key items before
the typhoon season. The bolt torques of components, such as the pitch brake, shaft,
and generator, should meet the requirements. The UPS batteries should be in good
condition to ensure the reliability of the pitch system. The hydraulic system and the
transmission mechanism in the control system should be functional to lock the blades.
The loops of the overspeed protection and vibration protection should connect nor-
mally to survive in typhoon conditions. The deep integration of artiﬁcial intelligence
and wind power technology enables the wind turbine to have the characteristics of
high reliability and high efﬁciency. Envision Energy developed a “super perception”
intelligent offshore wind turbine. A wind turbine with intelligent fault diagnosis
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 15 of 19
ability can solve a fault in real-time operation, thus eliminating the risk that may lead
to failure.
(3) Disaster warning. A disaster warning is an important part of reducing the destruction
of a typhoon. According to the typhoon disaster warning information issued by the
meteorological administration, a wind farm should track the movement of the ty-
phoon path and the wind and rain intensity in real time. Relying on cloud computing,
big data, and artiﬁcial intelligence, the meteorological, ocean, ship, and wind farm in-
formation can be intelligently analyzed. Yang et al. [ 91] reported that current offshore
wind farms lacked effective real-time sea state detection and accurate meteorological
forecasting systems. Thus, it is necessary to build an intelligent scheduling system of
maintenance ships for offshore wind farms. The intelligent management system for
offshore wind power should integrate a visual display, customized ﬁne forecasting,
real-time maritime warning, and ship/personnel-integrated management.
5. Conclusions
Typhoon damage is a key factor in the design and operation of offshore wind turbines,
and it is directly related to the stability and safety of wind turbines and the economy of
wind farms. This paper provides an overview of the recent developments of typhoon
resistance design and strategy for offshore wind turbines and puts forward the following
conclusions and prospects:
(1) The passage of a typhoon is accompanied by extreme wind and wave loads. At present,
there are adequately measured data for typhoon wind ﬁelds, and the numerical
simulation method is mature. However, there are few published measured data for
high-quality continuous observation data for typhoon waves, so numerical simulation
research should be carried out. In addition, the inﬂuence of the wave evolution
characteristics on the wind turbine motion response during the passage of a typhoon
should be considered.
(2) Through the optimization of structure and material, the typhoon resistance of an
offshore wind turbine blade and tower can be enhanced. Further research into the
numerical aerodynamic tools for the nonlinear response of a wind turbine subjected
to typhoons incorporating mesoscale and microscale numerical models is necessary to
achieve reliable structural analysis. The calculation accuracy of the ultimate load and
failure mode should be improved to balance the safety and economy of an offshore
wind turbine.
(3) According to the characteristics of the high wind speed and varying wind direction
of a typhoon, the combined control strategy of the pitch, yawing, and braking of a
typhoon is of major concern for effectively improving the survival ability of wind
turbines under typhoon conditions.
(4) The wind farm in southeastern China needs to establish an intelligent operation and
maintenance mode, integrating warning and management for a typhoon in order
to achieve the goal of reducing the cost and increasing the efﬁciency of offshore
wind farms.
At present, the research on the typhoon resistance of offshore wind turbines is mainly
based on experience with onshore wind turbines and offshore ﬁxed wind turbines, and
there are few practical studies on the survivability of ﬂoating wind turbines under typhoon
conditions. A ﬂoating wind turbine positioned by a mooring system has more complex
structural and motion characteristics. The high wind speed and large waves in the typhoon
sea state signiﬁcantly challenge the survivability of the mooring cables. Typhoons are the
control loading for ﬂoating wind turbine design in China. Due to the limited guidance at
present, it is necessary to carry out further research on the typhoon resistance design of a
mooring system. Additionally, the evolution of coupling motion characteristics and the
structural loads during the whole process of typhoons is worth being investigated.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 16 of 19
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, all authors; methodology, J.L. and Y.J.; formal analysis, all
authors.; writing—original draft preparation, J.L. and Z.L.; writing—review and editing, J.L. and Y.J.
and Y.T.; visualization, J.L. and Y.J.; funding acquisition, J.L. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China [Grant
No. 52001043].
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Hou, P .; Hu, W.; Soltani, M.; Chen, C.; Zhang, B.; Chen, Z. Offshore wind farm layout design considering optimized power
dispatch strategy. IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy 2017 ,8, 638–647. [CrossRef]
2. Saruwatari, M.; Yun, K.; Iwakuma, M.; Tamura, K.; Hase, Y.; Sasamori, Y.; Izumi, T. Design study of 15-mw fully superconducting
generators for offshore wind turbine. IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. 2016 ,26, 1–5. [CrossRef]
3. Lee, J.; Zhao, F. Global Wind Report 2021 ; Global Wind Energy Council: Brussels, Belgium, 2021.
4. Lee, D.; Cho, S.; Yang, H.; Na, S.; Kim, C. Load analysis and structural strength evaluation of semi-submersible platform
for wind turbines in Jeju Island sea states using hydrodynamic-structure interaction analysis. J. Mech. Sci. Technol. 2020 ,34,
1227–1235. [CrossRef]
5. Liu, B.; Zhang, Y.; Ma, Z.; Andersen, K.H.; Jostad, H.P .; Liu, D.; Pei, A. Design considerations of suction caisson foundations for
offshore wind turbines in southern China. Appl. Ocean Res. 2020 ,104, 102358. [CrossRef]
6. Floating Wind Joint Industry Project–Phase 2 Summary Report ; Carbon Trust: London, UK, 2020.
7. Fujimoto, Y.; Takahashi, Y.; Hayashi, Y. Alerting to rare large-scale ramp events in wind power generation. IEEE Trans. Sustain.
Energy 2019 ,10, 55–65. [CrossRef]
8. Xiao, F.; Xiao, Z. Characteristics of tropical cyclones in China and their impacts analysis. Nat. Hazard. 2010 ,54, 827–837.
9. Li, J.; Bian, J.; Ma, Y.; Jiang, Y. Impact of typhoons on ﬂoating offshore wind turbines: A case study of typhoon Mangkhut. J. Mar.
Sci. Eng. 2021 ,9, 543. [CrossRef]
10. Committee, C.S.A. Classiﬁcation of Tropical Cyclones ; Chinese Standardization Press: Beijing, China, 2006.
11. Jiang, D.; Zhuang, D.; Huang, Y.; Wang, J.; Fu, J. Evaluating the spatio-temporal variation of China’s offshore wind resources
based on remotely sensed wind ﬁeld data. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2013 ,24, 142–148. [CrossRef]
12. Chen, X.; Li, C.; Tang, J. Structural integrity of wind turbines impacted by tropical cyclones: A case study from China. J. Phys.
Conf. Ser. 2016 ,753, 042003. [CrossRef]
13. Li, Z.; Chen, S.; Hao, M.; Tao, F. Design defect of wind turbine operating in typhoon activity zone. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2013 ,27,
165–172. [CrossRef]
14. Lin, L.; Chen, K.; Xia, D.; Wang, H.; Hu, H.; He, F. Analysis on the wind characteristics under typhoon climate at the southeast
coast of China. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2018 ,182, 37–48. [CrossRef]
15. Song, L.; Chen, W.; Wang, B.; Zhi, S.; Liu, A. Characteristics of wind proﬁles in the landfalling typhoon boundary layer. J. Wind
Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2016 ,149, 77–88. [CrossRef]
16. Blocken, B. 50 years of computational wind engineering: Past, present and future. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2014 ,129,
69–102. [CrossRef]
17. Howell, R.; Qin, N.; Edwards, J.; Durrani, N. Wind tunnel and numerical study of a small vertical axis wind turbine. Renew.
Energy 2010 ,35, 412–422. [CrossRef]
18. Huang, P .; Xie, W.; Gu, M. A comparative study of the wind characteristics of three typhoons based on stationary and nonstationary
models. Nat. Hazard. 2020 ,101, 785–815. [CrossRef]
19. Xia, D.; Dai, L.; Lin, L.; Wang, H.; Hu, H. A ﬁeld measurement based wind characteristics analysis of a typhoon in near-ground
boundary layer. Atmosphere 2021 ,12, 873. [CrossRef]
20. Cao, S.; Tamura, Y.; Kikuchi, N.; Saito, M.; Nakayama, I.; Matsuzaki, Y. Wind characteristics of a strong typhoon. J. Wind Eng. Ind.
Aerodyn. 2009 ,97, 11–21. [CrossRef]
21. Wu, J.; Wang, Z.; Wang, G. The key technologies and development of offshore wind farm in China. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.
2014 ,34, 453–462. [CrossRef]
22. Olabi, A.G.; Wilberforce, T.; Elsaid, K.; Sayed, E.T.; Salameh, T.; Abdelkareem, M.A.; Baroutaji, A. A review on failure modes of
wind turbine components. Energies 2021 ,14, 5241. [CrossRef]
23. Chen, X.; Li, C.; Xu, J. Failure investigation on a coastal wind farm damaged by super typhoon: A forensic engineering study. J.
Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2015 ,147, 132–142. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 17 of 19
24. Wang, J.; Chen, Z. Analysis of risks and measures on the blade damage of offshore wind turbine during strong typhoons—
enlightenment from Red Bay wind farm. Strateg. Study CAE 2010 ,12, 32–34. (In Chinese)
25. Chou, J.; Chiu, C.; Huang, I.; Chi, K. Failure analysis of wind turbine blade under critical wind loads. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2013 ,27,
99–118. [CrossRef]
26. Wang, L.; Xu, Y. A preliminary study on typhoon damage to wind farm and the typhoon characteristics. Wind Energy 2012 ,5,
74–79. (In Chinese)
27. OpenFAST ; NREL: Golden, CO, USA, 2018.
28. Bladed–Brochure, Engineering Feature Summary ; DNV: Oslo, Norway, 2020.
29. Larsen, T.J. How 2 HAWC2, the User’s Manual ; Risø DTU: Roskilde, Denmark, 2009.
30. OrcaFlex Applications: K01 Floating Wind Turbine ; Orcina Ltd.: Ulverston, UK, 2020.
31. Ren, N.; Li, W.; Li, Y. The aerodynamic analysis of offshore wind turbine blades during typhoon. Acta Energ. Sol. Sin. 2016 ,37,
322–328. (In Chinese)
32. Ren, N.; Xu, S.; Ma, Z.; Li, W. Effect of parking attitude on aerodynamic loads of offshore wind turbine blades during extreme
typhoon. Acta Energ. Sol. Sin. 2020 ,41, 287–292. (In Chinese)
33. Yang, C.; Chen, Y.; Kouh, J. Numerical study of the aerodynamic loads acting on a wind turbine due to wind gusts during a
typhoon. J. Chin. Soc. Mech. Eng. 2014 ,35, 273–285.
34. Lian, J.; Jia, Y.; Wang, H.; Liu, F. Numerical study of the aerodynamic loads on offshore wind turbines under typhoon with full
wind direction. Energies 2016 ,9, 613. [CrossRef]
35. Han, T.; Mccann, G.; Muecke, T.A.; Freudenreich, K. How can a wind turbine survive in tropical cyclone? Renew. Energy 2014 ,70,
3–10. [CrossRef]
36. Han, R.; Wang, L.; Wang, T. Dynamic response characteristics of wind turbine in different regions of typhoon. Acta Energ. Sol. Sin.
2020 ,41, 251–258. (In Chinese)
37. Wang, H.; Ke, S.; Wang, T.; Zhu, S. Typhoon-induced vibration response and the working mechanism of large wind turbine
considering multi-stage effects. Renew. Energy 2020 ,153, 740–758. [CrossRef]
38. Kim, S.; Chun, H. Stratospheric gravity waves generated by typhoon Saomai (2006): Numerical modeling in a moving frame
following the typhoon. J. Atmos. Sci. 2010 ,67, 3617–3636. [CrossRef]
39. O’brien, J.M.; Young, T.M.; O’mahoney, D.C.; Grifﬁn, P .C. Horizontal axis wind turbine research: A review of commercial CFD,
FE codes and experimental practices. Prog. Aerosp. Sci. 2017 ,92, 1–24. [CrossRef]
40. Ke, S.; Xu, L.; Wang, T. Aerodynamic performance and wind-induced responses of large wind turbine systems with meso-scale
typhoon effects. Energies 2019 ,12, 3696. [CrossRef]
41. Albermani, F.; Kitipornchai, S.; Chan, R.W.K. Failure analysis of transmission towers. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2009 ,16,
1922–1928. [CrossRef]
42. Chen, X.; Xu, J. Structural failure analysis of wind turbines impacted by super typhoon Usagi. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2016 ,60,
391–404. [CrossRef]
43. Chou, J.; Tu, W. Failure analysis and risk management of a collapsed large wind turbine tower. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2011 ,18,
295–313. [CrossRef]
44. Dai, K.; Sheng, C.; Zhao, Z.; Yi, Z.; Camara, A.; Bitsuamlak, G. Nonlinear response history analysis and collapse mode study of a
wind turbine tower subjected to tropical cyclonic winds. Wind Struct. 2017 ,25, 79–100.
45. Zhang, Z.; Li, J.; Zhuge, P . Failure analysis of large-scale wind power structure under simulated typhoon. Math. Probl. Eng. 2014 ,
2014 , 486524. [CrossRef]
46. Zhang, X.; Wang, M.; Wang, Y.; Liu, Y. Research on Failure of Offshore Wind Turbine Tower in Typhoon ; OCEANS-MTS/IEEE Kobe
Techno-Oceans: Kobe, Japan, 2018.
47. He, G.; Tian, J.; Chang, D. Anti-typhoon conceptual design of offshore wind turbines. Electr. Power Constr. 2013 ,34, 11–17.
(In Chinese)
48. Liu, X.; Deng, Z.; Gao, Q. Typhoon-resistance analysis of wind turbines with different towers based on time-domain method. J.
Hunan Univ. (Nat. Sci.) 2017 ,44, 81–87. (In Chinese)
49. Chou, J.; Ou, Y.; Lin, K. Collapse mechanism and risk management of wind turbine tower in strong wind. J. Wind Eng. Ind.
Aerodyn. 2019 ,193. [CrossRef]
50. Riders on the Storm: GE is Building a Wind Turbine that Can Weather Violent Typhoons, Hurricanes. Available online: https:
//www.ge.com/news/reports/riders-storm-ge-building-wind-turbine-can-weather-violent-typhoons-hurricanes (accessed on
10 March 2022).
51. Ma, H.; Lu, Z.; Li, Y.; Chen, C.; Yang, J. Permanent accumulated rotation of offshore wind turbine monopile due to typhoon-
induced cyclic loading. Mar. Struct. 2021 ,80, 103079. [CrossRef]
52. Zhu, B.; Wang, B.; Li, Y.; Lou, M.; Xia, L.; Shi, Y. Typhoon risk assessment of the substructures of offshore wind turbines. The
Ocean Eng. 2019 ,37, 78–84. (In Chinese)
53. Jonkman, J.M.; Matha, D. Dynamics of offshore ﬂoating wind turbines—Analysis of three concepts. Wind Energy 2011 ,14,
557–569. [CrossRef]
54. Liu, L.; Bian, H.; Du, Z.; Xiao, C.; Guo, Y.; Jin, W. Reliability analysis of blade of the offshore wind turbine supported by the
ﬂoating foundation. Compos. Struct. 2019 ,211, 287–300. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 18 of 19
55. Tanaka, K.; Sato, I.; Utsunomiya, T.; Kakuya, H. Validation of dynamic response of a 2-mw hybrid-spar ﬂoating wind turbine
during typhoon using full-scale ﬁeld data. Ocean Eng. 2020 ,218, 108262. [CrossRef]
56. Liu, Y.; Chen, D.; Qian, Y.; Li, S. Wind proﬁles and wave spectra for potential wind farms in south china sea. Part i: Wind speed
proﬁle model. Energies 2017 ,10, 125. [CrossRef]
57. Ti, Z.; Wei, K.; Li, Y.; Xu, B. Effect of wave spectral variability on stochastic response of a long-span bridge subjected to random
waves during tropical cyclones. J. Bridge Eng. 2020 ,25, 04019118. [CrossRef]
58. Li, Q.; Zhou, W.; Tong, J. Numerical analysis of dynamic response of typical offshore wind turbine structures in typhoon
environment. China Ocean. Platf. 2019 ,34, 32–39. (In Chinese)
59. Yang, B.; Shi, W.; Ye, Q.; Zhang, Z.; Song, Z. Characteristics of waves in coastal waters of northeast Zhoushan Island during
typhoons. Adv. Water Ence 2017 ,28, 106–115. (In Chinese)
60. Liu, H.; Xie, L.; Pietrafesa, L.J.; Bao, S. Sensitivity of wind waves to hurricane wind characteristics. Ocean Modell. 2007 ,18,
37–52. [CrossRef]
61. Han, X.; Zhou, L.; You, D.; Xiao, Z. Numerical simulation of wind wave and swell ﬁelds generated by 0801 typhoon. Trans. Atmos.
Sci.2011 ,34, 297–605. (In Chinese)
62. Xu, Y.; He, H.; Song, J.; Hou, Y.; Li, F. Observations and modeling of typhoon waves in the South China Sea. J. Phys. Oceanogr.
2017 ,47, 1307–1324. [CrossRef]
63. Wang, N.; Hou, Y.; Li, S.; Li, R. Numerical simulation and preliminary analysis of typhoon waves during three typhoons in the
Yellow Sea and East China Sea. J. Oceanol. Limnol. 2019 ,37, 17–28. [CrossRef]
64. Mo, D.; Liu, Y.; Hou, Y.; Liu, Z. Bimodality and growth of the spectra of typhoon-generated waves in northern South China Sea.
Acta Oceanolog. Sin. 2019 ,38, 74–84. [CrossRef]
65. Chen, X.; Zhou, L.; Shi, W.; Jing, J.; Chen, X. Characteristics of wave and surge ﬁelds of typhoon Muifa. Adv. Mar. Sci. 2013 ,31,
22–30. (In Chinese)
66. Coulling, A.J.; Goupee, A.J.; Robertson, A.N.; Jonkman, J.M.; Dagher, H.J. Validation of a FAST semi-submersible ﬂoating wind
turbine numerical model with DeepCwind test data. J. Renew. Sustain. Energy 2013 ,5, 557–569. [CrossRef]
67. Bae, Y.; Kim, M.; Kim, H. Performance changes of a ﬂoating offshore wind turbine with broken mooring line. Renew. Energy 2017 ,
101, 364–375. [CrossRef]
68. Chuang, T.; Yang, W.; Yang, R. Experimental and numerical study of a barge-type FOWT platform under wind and wave load.
Ocean Eng. 2021 ,230, 109015. [CrossRef]
69. Huang, Z.; Li, C.; Ding, Q.; Zhou, H.; Chen, F. Dynamic response and mooring performance of a semisubmersible platform for
ﬂoating wind turbine considering typhoon sea states. J. Chin. Soc. Power Eng. 2017 ,37, 1015–1022.
70. Li, J.; Zhang, Q.; Du, J.; Jiang, Y. Parametric Study of Catenary Mooring System for a Semisubmersible Floating Wind Turbine
in Intermediate Water Depth. In Proceedings of the ASME 2020 39th International Conference on Ocean, Offshore and Arctic
Engineering, Virtual Online, 3–7 August 2020.
71. Liu, Z.; Zhou, Q.; Tu, Y.; Wang, W.; Hua, X. Proposal of a novel semi-submersible ﬂoating wind turbine platform composed of
inclined columns and multi-segmented mooring lines. Energies 2019 ,12, 1809. [CrossRef]
72. Lian, J.; Zhao, Y.; Lian, C.; Wang, H.; Dong, X.; Jiang, Q.; Zhou, H.; Jiang, J. Application of an eddy current-tuned mass damper to
vibration mitigation of offshore wind turbines. Energies 2018 ,11, 3319. [CrossRef]
73. Barbanti, G.; Marino, E.; Borri, C. Mooring System Optimization for a Spar-Buoy Wind Turbine in Rough Wind and Sea Conditions.
In Proceedings of the XV Conference of the Italian Association for Wind Engineering, Naples, Italy, 9–12 September 2018.
74. Ben, B.; Hou, L.; Zhang, D. Optimal control strategy for anti-typhoon yaw system of offshore wind turbine. Electr. Drive 2020 ,50,
60–65. (In Chinese)
75. Dou, B.; Qu, T.; Lei, L.; Zeng, P . Optimization of wind turbine yaw angles in a wind farm using a three-dimensional yawed wake
model. Energy 2016 ,209, 118415. [CrossRef]
76. Hallowell, S.T.; Myers, A.T.; Arwade, S.R. Assessment of long-term stress spectrum with wind turbines. IEEE Trans. Turbines
Monit. Syst. 2016 ,18, 1–8.
77. Guo, Q.; Yang, Z.; Liu, C.; Xu, Y.; Xie, L. Anti-Typhoon Yaw Control Technology for Offshore Wind Farms. In Proceedings of
the 2020 5th International Conference on Mechanical, Control and Computer Engineering (ICMCCE), Harbin, China, 25–27
December 2020.
78. Jiao, X.; Chen, W.; Zhang, Y.; Shen, M. Research on adaptive yaw control strategy for wind power generator. Tech. Autom. Appl.
2019 ,38, 7–11. (In Chinese)
79. Tao, H.; Yu, Y.; Du, M.; Qiu, G.; He, C. Design of yaw drive system and its control strategy for offshore wind turbine. Ind. Control.
Comput. 2019 ,32, 69–74. (In Chinese)
80. Han, W.; Zhu, S.; Zhu, L. Research on typhoon resistance strategy design of offshore large wind turbine. Appl. Energy Technol.
2020 ,3, 38–41. (In Chinese)
81. Bao, W.; Wang, H.; Ke, S. Wind-induced response characteristics and yaw effect of large-scale wind turbine based on multi-body
dynamics method. J. Vib. Shock. 2020 ,39, 257–265. (In Chinese)
82. Ma, Z.; Li, W.; Ren, N.; Ou, J. The typhoon effect on the aerodynamic performance of a ﬂoating offshore wind turbine. J. Ocean.
Eng. Sci. 2017 ,2, 279–287. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 451 19 of 19
83. Garciano, L.E.; Koike, T. A proposed typhoon resistant design of a wind turbine tower in the Philippines. J. Jpn. Soc. Civ. Eng.
2007 ,63, 181–189. [CrossRef]
84. He, W.; Deng, Y.; Tian, D.; He, K.; Zhang, Y. Analysis of ultimate load and ﬁeld data of wind turbines under typhoon condition.
Acta Energ. Sol. Sin. 2016 ,37, 2727–2732. (In Chinese)
85. Kim, E.; Manuel, L. A framework for hurricane risk assessment of offshore wind farms. In Proceedings of the 31st ASME
International Conference on Ocean, Offshore and Arctic Engineering, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1–6 July 2012.
86. Rose, S.; Jaramillo, P .; Small, M.J.; Apt, J. Quantifying the hurricane catastrophe risk to offshore wind power. Risk Anal. 2013 ,33,
2126–2141. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
87. Mardfekri, M.; Gardoni, P . Multi-hazard reliability assessment of offshore wind turbines. Wind Energy 2015 ,18,1433–1450. [CrossRef]
88. Hallowell, S.T.; Myers, A.T.; Arwade, S.R.; Pang, W.; Rawal, P .; Hines, E.M.; Hajjar, J.F.; Qiao, C.; Valamanesh, V .; Wei, K. Hurricane
risk assessment of offshore wind turbines. Renew. Energy 2018 ,125, 234–249. [CrossRef]
89. Li, S.; Du, X. Preliminary Assessment of Offshore Wind Turbine Risk Assessment for a Typhoon Prone Region of China. In
Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Wind Engineering, Beijing, China, 1–6 September 2019.
90. Dong, X.; Man, J.; Wang, H.; Yu, T.; Zhao, Y. Structural vibration monitoring and operational modal analysis of offshore wind
turbine structure. Ocean Eng. 2018 ,150, 280–297. [CrossRef]
91. Yang, Y.; Yang, X.; Wang, S. Scheme design of intelligent vessel dispatching and personnel management system for offshore wind
farm. South. Energy Constr. 2020 ,7, 47–52. (In Chinese)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
