Citation: Anastasiadis, N.P .; Sakaris,
C.S.; Schlanbusch, R.; Sakellariou, J.S.
Vibration-Based SHM in the Synthetic
Mooring Lines of the Semisubmersible
OO-Star Wind Floater under Varying
Environmental and Operational
Conditions. Sensors 2024 ,24, 543.
https://doi.org/10.3390/s24020543
Academic Editors: Kanji Ono and
Didem Ozevin
Received: 20 November 2023
Revised: 7 January 2024
Accepted: 9 January 2024
Published: 15 January 2024
Copyright: ©2024 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sensors
Article
Vibration-Based SHM in the Synthetic Mooring Lines of the
Semisubmersible OO-Star Wind Floater under Varying
Environmental and Operational Conditions
Nikolas P . Anastasiadis1
, Christos S. Sakaris1
, Rune Schlanbusch1,*
and John S. Sakellariou2
1Norwegian Research Centre, Technology Department, Jon Lilletuns vei 9 H, 3. et, 4879 Grimstad, Norway;
nikolas.p.anastasiadis@gmail.com (N.P .A.); csak@norceresearch.no (C.S.S.)
2Department of Mechanical Engineering and Aeronautic, University of Patras, 26504 Patras, Greece;
sakj@mech.upatras.gr
*Correspondence: rusc@norceresearch.no; Tel.: +47-90966133
Abstract: As the industry transitions toward Floating Offshore Wind Turbines (FOWT) in greater
depths, conventional chain mooring lines become impractical, prompting the adoption of synthetic
fiber ropes. Despite their advantages, these mooring lines present challenges in inspection due to
their exterior jacket, which prevents visual assessment. The current study focuses on vibration-based
Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) in FOWT synthetic mooring lines under uncertainty arising
from varying Environmental and Operational Conditions (EOCs). Six damage detection methods are
assessed, utilizing either multiple models or a single functional model. The methods are based on
Vector Autoregressive (VAR) or Transmittance Function Autoregressive with exogenous input (TF-
ARX) models. All methods are evaluated through a Monte Carlo study involving 1100 simulations,
utilizing acceleration signals generated from a finite element model of the OO-Star Wind Floater Semi
10 MW wind turbine. With signals from only two measuring positions, the methods demonstrate
excellent results, detecting the stiffness reduction of a mooring line at levels 10% through 50%. The
methods are also tested for healthy cases, with those utilizing TF-ARX models achieving zero false
alarms, even for EOCs not encountered in the training data.
Keywords: structural health monitoring; synthetic fiber ropes; varying environmental and operating
conditions; transmittance function; autoregressive models; Floating Offshore Wind Turbine; mooring
lines; damage detection; functional models
1. Introduction
1.1. The General Problem
The offshore wind energy sector is undoubtedly undergoing unprecedented growth,
with projections indicating substantial expansion in the coming years. As nations strive to
reduce carbon emissions, offshore wind power has emerged as an essential solution for
coastal countries. The European Union has set new targets, aiming to achieve 111 GW
offshore wind capacity by 2030 and a staggering 317 GW by 2050, surpassing the already
ambitious goals of 60 and 300 GW set in November 2020 [ 1]. Similarly, the United States of
America has established policies with the goal of installing 30 GW of offshore wind power
by 2030 [ 2], while within Asia, China alone targets 200 GW by 2030 [ 3]. For the effective
achievement of these ambitious targets and the alignment with the global goals for net-zero
emissions by 2050, the acceleration of the annual deployment rate of offshore wind projects
is crucial [ 4]. Yet, the offshore wind industry faces significant challenges, which include not
only the total lifecycle costs of the turbines themselves but also the inherent risks associated
with these substantial investments.
The operational and maintenance (O&M) cost plays a pivotal role in the overall
offshore wind turbine life expenses, comprising a range of 13.9% to 19.6% of the levelized
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543. https://doi.org/10.3390/s24020543 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 2 of 30
cost of energy (LCOE) [ 5,6]. Among these costs, the maintenance strategy itself is a major
factor. Evidently, the utilization of corrective maintenance, which involves addressing
issues as they occur, is not a sustainable approach for offshore wind turbines due to the
substantial ramifications of prolonged downtimes [ 7]. Preventive maintenance schemes,
which depend on frequent inspections aimed at addressing issues before they lead to
failure, hold the potential to mitigate these maintenance-related downtimes; however,
the harsh oceanic conditions limit the available time windows for on-site inspections,
extending the periods between them. Consequently, more time is allowed for damage
to develop into an irreparable level before being detected [ 7]. Moreover, planned on-
site inspections demand considerable downtime, as many of them cannot be conducted
while the turbine is operational. Finally, given that floating wind turbines can be situated
well over a hundred kilometers from the shore (e.g., the Hywind Tampen wind farm
located in the Norwegian North Sea [ 8]), the transportation cost for the inspections is also
substantial. These challenges can be mitigated with condition-based maintenance strategies,
which involve the continuous remote measurement of relevant information regarding the
structural state, as well as the utilization of Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) techniques
for damage detection [9].
A critical part of Floating Offshore Wind Turbines (FOWTs) that requires monitoring
is the mooring lines, as their failure may lead to several catastrophic events [ 10]. Firstly,
such failure will result in a drift, disconnecting the electric cable, jeopardizing the power
production, and introducing the risk of collision with other wind turbines. Furthermore,
the stability of the structure itself can be compromised, resulting in increased oscillations,
subjecting other critical components to additional stress [ 11], and potentially leading to
capsizing or even sinking. It becomes evident that maintaining an up-to-date understanding
of the mooring lines’ condition is essential for preventing these dire consequences.
When it comes to deep-sea installations, conventional chain or steel wire are not
appropriate options for the mooring system since, with increasing depth, the weight of
the mooring line alone exceeds its stress limit. Synthetic fiber ropes are advantageous in
this regard, as their density is comparable to water’s, allowing for neutral buoyancy and,
therefore, rendering them suitable for any depth [ 9]. Furthermore, they possess greater
fatigue and corrosion resistance, which are significant design factors in the corrosive and
dynamically loaded offshore environment [ 12]. Nonetheless, these advantages come with
some challenges when it comes to monitoring the lines.
Usually, mooring lines are monitored through visual inspections using Remote Oper-
ated Vehicles (ROVs). Although this approach may be suitable for monitoring chains or
steel wires, it is not for synthetic mooring lines. This is because the complex composition
of synthetic ropes and their jacket, if present, hinders potential damage in the internal
strands [ 13] (see Figure 1). Furthermore, biofouling and murky water might also obstruct
reliable visual inspection. Therefore, alternative methods of monitoring must be employed.
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 2 of 30 
 
 The operational and maintenance (O&M) cost plays a pivotal role in the overall o ﬀ-
shore wind turbine life expenses, comprising a range of 13.9% to 19.6% of the levelized 
cost of energy (LCOE) [5,6]. Among these cost s, the maintenance strategy itself is a major 
factor. Evidently, the utilization of corrective maintenance, which involves addressing is-
sues as they occur, is not a sustainable approach for o ﬀshore wind turbines due to the 
substantial rami ﬁcations of prolonged downtimes [7]. Preventive maintenance schemes, 
which depend on frequent inspections aimed at addressing issues before they lead to fail-
ure, hold the potential to mitigate these maintenance-related down times; however, the 
harsh oceanic conditions limit the available time windows for on-site inspections, extend-
ing the periods between them. Consequently, mo re time is allowed for damage to develop 
into an irreparable level before being detected [7]. Moreover, planned on-site inspections demand considerable downtime, as many of them cannot be conducted while the turbine 
is operational. Finally, given that ﬂoating wind turbines can be situated well over a hun-
dred kilometers from the shore (e.g., the Hywind Tampen wind farm located in the Nor-
wegian North Sea [8]), the transportation cost for the inspections is also substantial. These 
challenges can be mitigated with condition- based maintenance strategies, which involve 
the continuous remote measurement of relevant information regarding the structural 
state, as well as the utilization of Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) techniques for dam-
age detection [9]. 
A critical part of Floating O ﬀshore Wind Turbines (FOWTs) that requires monitoring 
is the mooring lines, as their failure may lead to several catastrophic events [10]. Firstly, such failure will result in a drift, disconnect ing the electric cable, jeopardizing the power 
production, and introducing the risk of collis ion with other wind turbines. Furthermore, 
the stability of the structure itself can be compromised, resulting in increased oscillations, 
subjecting other critical components to additional stress [11], and potentially leading to 
capsizing or even sinking. It becomes evident that maintaining an up-to-date understand-ing of the mooring lines’ condition is essential for preventing these dire consequences.  
When it comes to deep-sea installations, co nventional chain or steel wire are not ap-
propriate options for the mooring system since,  with increasing depth, the weight of the 
mooring line alone exceeds its stress limit. Synthetic ﬁber ropes are advantageous in this 
regard, as their density is comparable to wa ter’s, allowing for neutral buoyancy and, 
therefore, rendering them suitable for any de pth [9]. Furthermore, they possess greater 
fatigue and corrosion resistance, which are signi ﬁcant design factors in the corrosive and 
dynamically loaded o ﬀshore environment [12]. Nonetheles s, these advantages come with 
some challenges when it comes to monitoring the lines. 
Usually, mooring lines are monitored through visual inspections using Remote Op-
erated Vehicles (ROVs). Although this approach  may be suitable for monitoring chains or 
steel wires, it is not for synthetic mooring lines. This is because the complex composition 
of synthetic ropes and their jacket, if presen t, hinders potential damage in the internal 
strands [13] (see Figure 1). Furthermore, bi ofouling and murky water might also obstruct 
reliable visual inspection. Therefore, alte rnative methods of monitoring must be em-
ployed. 
 
Figure 1. Parallel sub-rope mooring line composition. 
For the monitoring of synthetic mooring lines, vibration-based methods constitute a 
ﬁtting choice due to their several advantages [1 4]. Firstly, they possess the potential to 
Figure 1. Parallel sub-rope mooring line composition.
For the monitoring of synthetic mooring lines, vibration-based methods constitute
a fitting choice due to their several advantages [ 14]. Firstly, they possess the potential to
detect a wide range of damage, including those that may not be visible from the outside
of the jacket. Additionally, these methods are cost-effective in terms of instrumentation
and operation, as they require only a small number of sensors. The sensors, typically
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 3 of 30
accelerometers, can be easily placed on the jacket’s exterior, avoiding interference with the
rope’s structure and its properties, unlike embedded technologies (e.g., optical fibers) [ 15].
Furthermore, they do not require the presence of personnel on the wind farm, enabling
real-time inspection and reducing transportation costs and occupational risks. Finally,
these methods can be extended for damage identification, quantification, localization, and
estimation of the remaining service life of the rope, depending on the availability of signals
from damaged cases.
Despite their advantages, vibration-based methods do present some challenges, with
the most prominent one being their sensitivity to uncertainties, particularly those posed by
varying Environmental and Operational Conditions (EOCs). This sensitivity may result in
a high rate of false alarms, rendering them impractical.
As of now, the existing literature on vibration-based SHM for mooring lines in FOWTs
is very limited. In their work, Gorostidi et al. [ 16] employ a deep Neural Network (NN)
method to detect an increase in the mass of the mooring lines of a semisubmersible FOWT
due to biofouling. Jamalkia et al. [ 17] propose a fuzzy logic-based method for the detection,
identification, and quantification of stiffness reduction in the mooring lines of a Tension
Leg Platform (TLP) and Spar FOWT. Dehkharghani et al. [ 18] introduce a nonprobabilistic
method utilizing artificial NNs to detect and identify stiffness reduction in the mooring
lines of a semisubmersible FOWT. Liu et al. [ 19] demonstrate a mixed model and signal-
based approach for the detection of faults on a triple-spar FOWT, including damage on the
fairlead and anchor of a mooring line.
While the aforementioned studies make valuable contributions to the field, it is essen-
tial to note that they do not adequately address the uncertainties stemming from EOCs. For
example, Jamalkia et al. [ 17] introduced a signal-to-noise ratio to the method’s extracted
features, but they only considered a single case of EOCs with constant wind velocity and
sinusoidal wave excitation. Dehkharghani et al. [ 18] introduced some uncertainty due
to the stochasticity of the wind and wave excitations, but similar to Jamalkia et al. [ 17],
only accounted for one case of EOCs. Liu et al. [ 19] considered both laminar wind and
stochastic wind and wave excitations, with four cases of EOCs. Although their results
are promising in detecting mooring line damage, the limited cases of EOCs used in their
evaluation led to the acknowledgment that further investigations are necessary to prove
the method’s robustness. Finally, Gorostidi et al. [ 16] used a large number of different
EOCs, with stochastic wind and wave excitation, for the training and evaluation of their
method. However, their deep NN approach demands thousands of training cases, which
raises questions regarding its feasibility from a practical perspective.
Drawing upon the aforementioned references, the primary objective of the present
study is to propose and evaluate damage detection methods that effectively account for
uncertainties arising from EOCs. The evaluation of these methods will be characterized by
a comprehensive consideration of uncertainties arising from diverse EOCs while ensuring
their practicality through economical utilization of available data.
1.2. Conceptual Approach: Mitigating Uncertainties in Vibration-Based SHM
Vibration-based Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) methods can be either physics-
based or data-driven. Physics-based methods, although they allow for a more thorough
understanding of how specific damage may affect the structure’s response, require physics-
based models with sufficient precision, which are often not available [ 14] (pp. 154–156).
On the other hand, data-driven methods do not require such models and are, therefore,
deemed more appropriate for the current application.
Data-driven vibration-based methods consist of two phases: the training or baseline
phase and the inspection phase. In the training phase, while the structure is in the healthy
state, signals are obtained and used to estimate one or more baseline models that represent
the healthy structural dynamics. During the inspection phase, when the structure’s state
is unknown, new signals are acquired and used to estimate a model that represents the
dynamics of the unknown-state structure. A significant deviation between the unknown-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 4 of 30
state and baseline models signifies an alteration in structural dynamics, presumed to be a
result of damage.
There are several types of models that are used for the representation of the struc-
tural dynamics [ 20–22] (pp. 79–139). The use of parametric stochastic models of the
Autoregressive–Moving Average with exogenous input (ARMAX) family is a popular
choice due to their formulation, which allows their parameters to be directly associated
with the dynamic characteristics of the considered structure (i.e., natural frequencies and
damping ratios). This marks a notable distinction from methods that employ data to tune
artificial NN parameters, which lack physical interpretability [16,18].
Vibration-based methods can be classified into input–output or output-only, depend-
ing on the availability of the excitation signal. Input–output methods usually rely on the
deliberate excitation of the structure using mechanical actuators, enabling better control
over the excitation frequency bandwidth and energy. Therefore, the obtained vibration
response(s) provide detailed information about the structural dynamics across the entire
selected spectrum, leading to a more accurate evaluation of the structural state compared to
output-only methods. Such methods may utilize ARX models, which, during their estima-
tion, in addition to the measured vibration response(s), incorporate the excitation, thereby
enhancing their resilience against excitation variability [ 21,22] (pp. 81–83). Conversely,
output-only methods depend exclusively on vibration response signals obtained under
ambient and unknown excitation. This makes them suitable for scenarios where employing
a mechanical actuator is either costly or impractical. Nevertheless, the compromise for this
practical convenience is the limitation of frequency content in the measured vibration sig-
nals, constraining the exploration of structural dynamics. This constraint primarily arises
from the bandwidth of the excitation, which is limited to lower frequencies, especially
when physical excitations like wind and waves are considered.
To mitigate the impact of excitation variability on the estimated models, which might
otherwise compromise the method’s performance, while adhering to response-only type
methods, the use of the Transmittance Function (TF) is a viable approach [ 23]. The TF is
defined as the ratio of the Cross-Spectral Density (CSD) over the Power (auto)-Spectral
Density (PSD) of two response signals, y1[t]and y2[t], measured at different positions on
the structure [23]:
T(jω)=Sy2y1(jω)
Sy1y1(ω)(1)
where ωdesignates frequency, jthe imaginary unit, Sy2y1the CSD of y1[t]and y2[t], and
Sy1y1the PSD of y1[t].
The TF resembles a typical Frequency Response Function (FRF), with the distinction
that two separate output signals are used instead of a pair of input–output signals. To
facilitate a better understanding of the TF functionality within the specific context of the
current study, Figure 2 illustrates its application in modeling a mooring line segment. As
depicted in the figure, two response signals are measured using accelerometers, one at each
side of the segment. By designating one of the two measured signals as the excitation and
the other as a response, it becomes possible to define a system that represents the relative
admittance between the two measuring positions. The underlying idea for its application
is that akin to a conventional FRF, the TF remains unaffected by the excitation variability
while exhibiting high sensitivity to damage.
The TF similarity with the FRF also allows for the parametric ARX (TF-ARX) represen-
tation of the TF [ 23], providing a different approach when multiple signals are available, in
addition to the Vector-AR (VAR) stochastic models [24,25].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 5 of 30
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 30 
 
 healthy structural state under a single EOC. Hence, an alternative approach is essential to 
accommodate variations in EOCs and prevent their misinterpretation as damage. This ap-
proach may be grounded in two main concepts. The ﬁrst involves the use of implicit meth-
ods, such as the Factor Analysis (FA) [26] and Principal Components Analysis (PCA)-
based methods [27], which extract features from the vibration signals that are exclusively 
sensitive to damage and not to the EOCs. The second concept involves the use of explicit 
methods such as the Multiple Model (MM) -based methods [27,28] and the Functional 
Model (FM)-based method s [29,30], where the in ﬂuence of the EOCs is incorporated in 
the models representing the he althy structural dynamics. 
 
Figure 2. Mooring line segment’s modeling based on the TF of two acceleration signals. : accel-
erometer measuring position. 
1.3. Aim and Objectives 
Building on the literature referenced in Section 1.1, the primary aim of this study is 
to propose and evaluate methods that success fully address uncertainties stemming from 
EOCs, which may otherwise lead to unreliable damage detection. The proposed methods 
adhere to either implicit and/or explicit approaches while upholding practicality through 
the economical utilization of available data. In particular, six methods are employed: 
1. Two Multiple Model (MM)-based methods; 
2. Two PCA-based MM methods; 
3. Two Functional Model (FM)-based methods. 
The employed methods are based on either VAR or TF-ARX models and are abbrevi-
ated as MM-VAR, MM-TF-ARX, PCA-MM-VA R, PCA-MM-TF-ARX, FM-VAR and FM-
TF-ARX. 
The methods are evaluated and compared through 1100 Monte Carlo simulations 
utilizing acceleration signals generated from the simulation of the OO-Star Wind Floater 
Semi 10 MW FOWT. Several damage scenarios are considered corresponding to 10% to 
50% stiﬀness reduction of a single mooring line. Damage detection is based on accelera-
tion signals from a limited nu mber of measuring positions, with the optimum positions 
selected via criteria based on the PSD and the TF. 
The remainder of the article is organized as  follows: Section 2 provides an overview 
of the FOWT, the Monte Carlo simulations, and a comparative analysis of the changes in 
the structural dynamics resulting from damage in a mooring line and changes in EOCs. Additionally, this section presents a systematic approach for selecting the optimal meas-
uring positions for damage detection based on speci ﬁc criteria. In Section 3 the MM, PCA-
based MM, and FM-based methods’ framework is introduced, along with the models em-
ployed within them. Section 4 provides the system identi ﬁcation process and the results 
of the detection methods. These results are su bsequently reviewed in Section 5, and con-
clusions are provided in Section 6. Preliminary results of this study based on scalar models 
have been presented in a conference paper [31]. 
Figure 2. Mooring line segment’s modeling based on the TF of two acceleration signals.
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 30 
 
 healthy structural state under a single EOC. Hence, an alternative approach is essential to 
accommodate variations in EOCs and prevent their misinterpretation as damage. This ap-
proach may be grounded in two main concepts. The ﬁrst involves the use of implicit meth-
ods, such as the Factor Analysis (FA) [26] and Principal Components Analysis (PCA)-
based methods [27], which extract features from the vibration signals that are exclusively 
sensitive to damage and not to the EOCs. The second concept involves the use of explicit 
methods such as the Multiple Model (MM) -based methods [27,28] and the Functional 
Model (FM)-based method s [29,30], where the in ﬂuence of the EOCs is incorporated in 
the models representing the he althy structural dynamics. 
 
Figure 2. Mooring line segment’s modeling based on the TF of two acceleration signals. : accel-
erometer measuring position. 
1.3. Aim and Objectives 
Building on the literature referenced in Section 1.1, the primary aim of this study is 
to propose and evaluate methods that success fully address uncertainties stemming from 
EOCs, which may otherwise lead to unreliable damage detection. The proposed methods 
adhere to either implicit and/or explicit approaches while upholding practicality through 
the economical utilization of available data. In particular, six methods are employed: 
1. Two Multiple Model (MM)-based methods; 
2. Two PCA-based MM methods; 
3. Two Functional Model (FM)-based methods. 
The employed methods are based on either VAR or TF-ARX models and are abbrevi-
ated as MM-VAR, MM-TF-ARX, PCA-MM-VA R, PCA-MM-TF-ARX, FM-VAR and FM-
TF-ARX. 
The methods are evaluated and compared through 1100 Monte Carlo simulations 
utilizing acceleration signals generated from the simulation of the OO-Star Wind Floater 
Semi 10 MW FOWT. Several damage scenarios are considered corresponding to 10% to 
50% stiﬀness reduction of a single mooring line. Damage detection is based on accelera-
tion signals from a limited nu mber of measuring positions, with the optimum positions 
selected via criteria based on the PSD and the TF. 
The remainder of the article is organized as  follows: Section 2 provides an overview 
of the FOWT, the Monte Carlo simulations, and a comparative analysis of the changes in 
the structural dynamics resulting from damage in a mooring line and changes in EOCs. Additionally, this section presents a systematic approach for selecting the optimal meas-
uring positions for damage detection based on speci ﬁc criteria. In Section 3 the MM, PCA-
based MM, and FM-based methods’ framework is introduced, along with the models em-
ployed within them. Section 4 provides the system identi ﬁcation process and the results 
of the detection methods. These results are su bsequently reviewed in Section 5, and con-
clusions are provided in Section 6. Preliminary results of this study based on scalar models 
have been presented in a conference paper [31]. 
 : ac-
celerometer measuring position.
EOCs play a significant role in system dynamics. A conventional data-driven model
of any of the ARMA, Vector ARMA, (VARMA) and ARMAX types can represent the
healthy structural state under a single EOC. Hence, an alternative approach is essential
to accommodate variations in EOCs and prevent their misinterpretation as damage. This
approach may be grounded in two main concepts. The first involves the use of implicit
methods, such as the Factor Analysis (FA) [ 26] and Principal Components Analysis (PCA)-
based methods [ 27], which extract features from the vibration signals that are exclusively
sensitive to damage and not to the EOCs. The second concept involves the use of explicit
methods such as the Multiple Model (MM)-based methods [ 27,28] and the Functional
Model (FM)-based methods [ 29,30], where the influence of the EOCs is incorporated in the
models representing the healthy structural dynamics.
1.3. Aim and Objectives
Building on the literature referenced in Section 1.1, the primary aim of this study is
to propose and evaluate methods that successfully address uncertainties stemming from
EOCs, which may otherwise lead to unreliable damage detection. The proposed methods
adhere to either implicit and/or explicit approaches while upholding practicality through
the economical utilization of available data. In particular, six methods are employed:
1. Two Multiple Model (MM)-based methods;
2. Two PCA-based MM methods;
3. Two Functional Model (FM)-based methods.
The employed methods are based on either VAR or TF-ARX models and are ab-
breviated as MM-VAR, MM-TF-ARX, PCA-MM-VAR, PCA-MM-TF-ARX, FM-VAR and
FM-TF-ARX.
The methods are evaluated and compared through 1100 Monte Carlo simulations
utilizing acceleration signals generated from the simulation of the OO-Star Wind Floater
Semi 10 MW FOWT. Several damage scenarios are considered corresponding to 10% to
50% stiffness reduction of a single mooring line. Damage detection is based on acceleration
signals from a limited number of measuring positions, with the optimum positions selected
via criteria based on the PSD and the TF.
The remainder of the article is organized as follows: Section 2 provides an overview of
the FOWT, the Monte Carlo simulations, and a comparative analysis of the changes in the
structural dynamics resulting from damage in a mooring line and changes in EOCs. Addi-
tionally, this section presents a systematic approach for selecting the optimal measuring
positions for damage detection based on specific criteria. In Section 3 the MM, PCA-based
MM, and FM-based methods’ framework is introduced, along with the models employed
within them. Section 4 provides the system identification process and the results of the
detection methods. These results are subsequently reviewed in Section 5, and conclusions
are provided in Section 6. Preliminary results of this study based on scalar models have
been presented in a conference paper [31].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 6 of 30
2. Case Study
2.1. The OO-Star Wind Floater Semi 10 MW FOWT
The case study for the implemented methods involves a simulation model of a 10 MW
Reference Wind Turbine developed at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) [ 32]
mounted on the OO-Star Wind Floater Semisubmersible substructure, which is designed
by Dr. Techn. Olav Olsen AS (DOOA) [ 33,34]. As illustrated in Figure 3a, the substructure
is composed of four columns, three outer and one central, interconnected with a star-
shaped pontoon. The central column provides support for the wind turbine, while the
outer columns contribute to the overall stability of the structure. The entire substructure
is constructed from posttensioned concrete and is secured in position using a semitaut
mooring system consisting of three lines attached to the top section of the outer columns.
Each mooring line is primarily composed of synthetic rope except for the bottom part, which
is in contact with the seabed, and a small segment at the connection with the substructure,
both of which are composed of steel chains. At a specific point on each mooring line close
to the surface, a clump weight is placed to enhance the substructure’s restoring forces,
thereby reducing its vertical offset. Furthermore, a buoy is attached to each line, positioned
between the synthetic rope and the steel chain segments, which has the primary function
of preventing the synthetic rope from making direct contact with the seabed.
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 30 
 
 2. Case Study 
2.1. The OO-Star Wind Floater Semi 10 MW FOWT 
The case study for the implemented method s involves a simulation model of a 10 
MW Reference Wind Turbine developed at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) 
[32] mounted on the OO-Star Wind Floater Semisubmersible substructure, which is de-
signed by Dr. Techn. Olav Olsen AS (DOOA) [33,34]. As illustrated in Figure 3a, the sub-
structure is composed of four columns, three outer and one central, interconnected with a 
star-shaped pontoon. The central column prov ides support for the wind turbine, while 
the outer columns contribute to the overall stab ility of the structure. The entire substruc-
ture is constructed from pos ttensioned concrete and is secured in position using a semi-
taut mooring system consisting of three lines a ttached to the top section of the outer col-
umns. Each mooring line is primarily composed of synthetic rope except for the bo ttom 
part, which is in contact with the seabed, and a small segment at the connection with the 
substructure, both of which are comp osed of steel chains. At a speci ﬁc point on each moor-
ing line close to the surface, a clump weight is  placed to enhance the substructure’s restor-
ing forces, thereby reducing its vertical o ﬀset. Furthermore, a buoy is a ttached to each line, 
positioned between the synthetic rope and the steel chain segments, which has the pri-
mary function of preventing the synthetic ro pe from making direct contact with the sea-
bed. 
  
(a) ( b) 
Figure 3. (a) The OO-Star Wind Floater Semi 10 MW FOWT and ( b) the measuring positions on the 
synthetic ﬁber rope and the ﬂoater. The numerical labels alongside the measuring position symbols 
represent the corresponding measuring positions .  
The examined substructure presents several advantages, which makes it a compel-
ling option for renewable energy production. Firstly, the semisubm ersible substructure 
can be manufactured and assembled alongside the wind turbine o ﬀ-site and then towed 
to its designated location, avoiding the additi onal costs and risks associated with complex 
on-site installation. In the case of utility-scale wind turbines, the transportation of their components at the assembly location is also a signi ﬁcant concern. Concrete as a material 
is advantageous in this regard because it can be easily transported directly to the construc-
tion site in its raw form [35]. Furthermore, it has higher local availability than steel, given 
that most countries have one or several ceme nt producers. Additionally, concrete has a 
Figure 3. (a) The OO-Star Wind Floater Semi 10 MW FOWT and ( b) the measuring positions on the
synthetic fiber rope and the floater. The numerical labels alongside the measuring position symbols
represent the corresponding measuring positions
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 30 
 
 healthy structural state under a single EOC. Hence, an alternative approach is essential to 
accommodate variations in EOCs and prevent their misinterpretation as damage. This ap-
proach may be grounded in two main concepts. The ﬁrst involves the use of implicit meth-
ods, such as the Factor Analysis (FA) [26] and Principal Components Analysis (PCA)-
based methods [27], which extract features from the vibration signals that are exclusively 
sensitive to damage and not to the EOCs. The second concept involves the use of explicit 
methods such as the Multiple Model (MM) -based methods [27,28] and the Functional 
Model (FM)-based method s [29,30], where the in ﬂuence of the EOCs is incorporated in 
the models representing the he althy structural dynamics. 
 
Figure 2. Mooring line segment’s modeling based on the TF of two acceleration signals. : accel-
erometer measuring position. 
1.3. Aim and Objectives 
Building on the literature referenced in Section 1.1, the primary aim of this study is 
to propose and evaluate methods that success fully address uncertainties stemming from 
EOCs, which may otherwise lead to unreliable damage detection. The proposed methods 
adhere to either implicit and/or explicit approaches while upholding practicality through 
the economical utilization of available data. In particular, six methods are employed: 
1. Two Multiple Model (MM)-based methods; 
2. Two PCA-based MM methods; 
3. Two Functional Model (FM)-based methods. 
The employed methods are based on either VAR or TF-ARX models and are abbrevi-
ated as MM-VAR, MM-TF-ARX, PCA-MM-VA R, PCA-MM-TF-ARX, FM-VAR and FM-
TF-ARX. 
The methods are evaluated and compared through 1100 Monte Carlo simulations 
utilizing acceleration signals generated from the simulation of the OO-Star Wind Floater 
Semi 10 MW FOWT. Several damage scenarios are considered corresponding to 10% to 
50% stiﬀness reduction of a single mooring line. Damage detection is based on accelera-
tion signals from a limited nu mber of measuring positions, with the optimum positions 
selected via criteria based on the PSD and the TF. 
The remainder of the article is organized as  follows: Section 2 provides an overview 
of the FOWT, the Monte Carlo simulations, and a comparative analysis of the changes in 
the structural dynamics resulting from damage in a mooring line and changes in EOCs. Additionally, this section presents a systematic approach for selecting the optimal meas-
uring positions for damage detection based on speci ﬁc criteria. In Section 3 the MM, PCA-
based MM, and FM-based methods’ framework is introduced, along with the models em-
ployed within them. Section 4 provides the system identi ﬁcation process and the results 
of the detection methods. These results are su bsequently reviewed in Section 5, and con-
clusions are provided in Section 6. Preliminary results of this study based on scalar models 
have been presented in a conference paper [31]. 
 .
The examined substructure presents several advantages, which makes it a compelling
option for renewable energy production. Firstly, the semisubmersible substructure can
be manufactured and assembled alongside the wind turbine off-site and then towed to
its designated location, avoiding the additional costs and risks associated with complex
on-site installation. In the case of utility-scale wind turbines, the transportation of their
components at the assembly location is also a significant concern. Concrete as a material is
advantageous in this regard because it can be easily transported directly to the construction
site in its raw form [ 35]. Furthermore, it has higher local availability than steel, given
that most countries have one or several cement producers. Additionally, concrete has a
lower cost than steel while also exhibiting higher corrosion resistance, lower operation and
maintenance costs, and a longer design life [36].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 7 of 30
The OO-Star floater has been investigated extensively within the LIFES50+ [ 33,37] and
FLAGSHIP [34] projects and is now owned by Bouygues Travaux Publics.
2.2. The Monte Carlo Simulations
The vibration signals used for the evaluation of the implemented SHM methods were
obtained from Monte Carlo simulations conducted through the aero-hydro-servo-elastic
simulation tool 3DFloat, developed by the Institute of Energy and Technology (IFE) [ 38].
This tool uses a Finite Element Model (FEM) with 2706 Degrees of Freedom, created jointly
by DOOA and IFE. During the Monte Carlo simulations, the operating wind turbine was
subjected to stochastic wind and wave excitations. The wind was generated following the
Kaimal spectrum model [ 39] (p. 30), while the waves followed the JONSWAP spectrum [ 40]
(pp. 106–112). The determination of the structure’s nonlinear response with 3DFloat is
based on a corotated FEM approach [ 41]. In this approach, the element equations are
formulated at each time step in a coordinate system attached to a reference configuration,
which represents a deformed state of the previous time step. This method enables the use
of small-strain elements to accommodate significant global deflections, thereby accounting
for geometric nonlinearities. Mooring lines are simulated as Euler–Bernoulli beam finite
elements, considering both extensional and bending stiffness. The incorporation of bending
stiffness in the model is well suited for fiber rope mooring lines, in contrast to alternative
models that account for only extensional stiffness, making them suitable exclusively for
chains. The outputs of 3DFloat may include motions, stresses, and other types of signals
regarding the operating system.
The SHM methods evaluated in the present study make use of acceleration signals.
Multiple measuring positions were considered both along the mooring line and on the
substructure, as depicted in Figure 3b. At each position, three signals were generated,
corresponding to the x, y and z directions. A sampling frequency of fs=5 Hz was selected,
considering the low-frequency wind and wave excitations [ 37]. Details regarding the
simulated cases are shown in Table 1 and discussed in Sections 2.3–2.5.
Table 1. Baseline and Inspection phase cases (structural state and wind speed) and data description.
Structural StateMean Wind Speed
(m/s)No. of
Simulations per
ScenarioTotal No. of Simulations
(Sets of Acceleration
Signals)
Baseline Phase Healthy 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 10 60
Inspection PhaseHealthy,
Mooring line stiffness
reduction: {10, 14, 20,
27, 30, 36, 40, 44, 50} %7, 7.4, 8, 8.6, 9, 9.5, 10,
10.7, 11, 11.4, 12,10 1100
Sampling frequency : fs=5Hz, Signal bandwidth : [0–2.5]Hz, Signal length : N=8500 samples.
2.3. The Damage Scenarios
Throughout their lifespan, synthetic rope mooring lines are vulnerable to several
damage modes that require attentive monitoring [ 13,15]. During regular operation, the
rope experiences cyclic loading, which, over time, results in tensile and compression fatigue.
The primary mechanism of tensile fatigue is the internal fiber-on-fiber abrasion caused by
the rubbing of strands within the rope (see Figure 1). This continuous friction eventually
leads to the breaking of the rope’s yarns. Compression fatigue, on the other hand, happens
when the strands buckle or kink under compression, resulting in a reduction of the fibers’
strength and allowing for increased interyarn movement, which, in turn, leads to more
abrasion [ 15]. Overloading or shock due to extreme weather conditions, ship or trawl
collisions and seismic events are also relevant damage modes that can result in significant
strength loss or even fracture. Finally, when a rope is subjected to constant load over a long
period, its length is increased, a phenomenon also known as creep. If the period is long
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 8 of 30
enough, this elongation becomes irreversible, altering the molecular polymer chains and
eventually leading to an increase in stress that accelerates into failure [15].
The discussed damage modes depend on the stress and/or deformation profile of
the line. Cyclic loading occurs throughout the entire length of the rope, although certain
regions that experience higher load amplitudes are expected to be more affected by tensile
fatigue. Regions that operate in lower tension during the alternate loading are, on the
other hand, more likely to buckle and thereby undergo compression fatigue, while sections
subjected to constant static loading are more likely to undergo substantial creep, depending
on the fiber material [ 15]. The determination of the degradation’s distribution along the
line’s length is a challenging task. It depends not only on the spatial and temporal stress
profile of the line but also on the influence of each damage mechanism, the quantification
of which is itself dependent on many factors. However, such an analysis falls out of the
scope of this study, and uniform degradation was adopted herein as in Jamalkia et al. [ 17]
and Dehkharghani et al. [ 18]. In particular, nine scenarios of different types of damage
were considered, corresponding to stiffness reduction from 10% to 50% (refer to Table 1)
along the entire length of one of the synthetic fiber ropes (see Figure 3a).
It is important to note that one of the major challenges associated with synthetic
mooring lines is their handling during installation, as synthetic ropes are susceptible to
damage when mishandled by contractors operating on tight time schedules. Although
identifying initial weaknesses in the mooring systems is also of significant interest, this
study exclusively focuses on damage that might occur in the ropes after an initial period of
operation. Therefore, the assumption is made that during this initial period, the mooring
lines remain in a healthy state.
2.4. The Environmental and Operational Conditions
As stated before, the EOCs have a significant impact on the structural dynamics.
Wind speed, direction, wave height, temperature, and other environmental factors are
important sources of uncertainty that should be considered when assessing the robustness
of vibration-based SHM methods. In the current study, uncertainty was introduced to
the dynamics by considering different mean wind speed values Uhub, measured at hub
height (see Figure 3a), within the 7–12 m/s range. The significant wave height Hsand peak
period Tpwere also treated as variables, dependent directly on the wind speed, as shown
in Table 2. The considered scenarios correspond to normal weather conditions, in which
the FOWT is in operation, and not to extreme events.
Table 2. The considered mean wind speeds at hub height Uhuband the corresponding significant
wave height Hsand peak periods Tp.
¯
Uhub
(m/s)7 7.4 8 8.6 9 9.5 10 10.7 11 11.4 12
Hs(m) 1.89 1.95 2.04 2.14 2.21 2.30 2.39 2.53 2.59 2.68 2.81
Tp(s) 9.02 9.06 9.13 9.20 9.26 9.32 9.39 9.49 9.54 9.60 9.70
2.5. Influence of the EOCs and Damage on the Structural Dynamics
The challenge addressed in the current study is demonstrated by comparing the effects
of EOCs on the FOWT dynamics with those of the induced damage. This comparison
is illustrated in Figures 4 and 5 through the nonparametric PSD and TF estimates of the
acceleration signals corresponding to indicative measuring positions. Specifically, Figure 4
illustrates the PSD corresponding to position 11 of the mooring line in the x direction, while
Figure 5 the TF corresponding to positions 9 and 10 in the x direction as well (see Figure 3b).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 9 of 30
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 10 of 30 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
(f) 
Figure 4. Welchbased estimates of the PSDs of acceleration signals corresponding to measuring po-
sition 11 in the x direction, under varying 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕ ∈[7, 12 ] m/s and corresponding 𝐻௦, 𝑇௣ (refer to 
Table 2), for healthy and damaged states: ( a) damage level 50%; ( b) damage level 40%; ( c) damage 
level 30%; ( d) damage level 20%; ( e) damage level 14%; ( f) damage level 10%. For the Welch estimate: 
Hamming Window; window size: 350; 𝑓௦ = 5 Hz; overlap: 95%; sample size 𝑁 = 8500 . 
Figure 4. Welchbased estimates of the PSDs of acceleration signals corresponding to measuring
position 11 in the x direction, under varying Uhub∈[7, 12]m/s and corresponding Hs,Tp(refer to
Table 2), for healthy and damaged states: ( a) damage level 50%; ( b) damage level 40%; ( c) damage
level 30%; ( d) damage level 20%; ( e) damage level 14%; ( f) damage level 10%. For the Welch estimate:
Hamming Window; window size: 350; fs= 5 Hz; overlap: 95%; sample size N=8500.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 10 of 30
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 11 of 30 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
(f) 
Figure 5. Welchbased TF of acceleration signals corresp onding to measuring positions 10 and 9 in 
the x direction under 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕ ∈[7, 12 ] m/s and corresponding 𝐻௦, 𝑇௣ (refer to Table 2), in the healthy 
and damaged states: ( a) damage level 50%; ( b) damage level 40%; ( c) damage level 30%; ( d) damage 
level 20%; ( e) damage level 14%; ( f) damage level 10%. For the Welch estimate: Hamming Window; 
window size: 350; 𝑓௦ = 5 Hz; sample size 𝑁 = 8500 ; overlap: 95%. 
Figure 5. Welchbased TF of acceleration signals corresponding to measuring positions 10 and 9 in
the x direction under Uhub∈[7, 12]m/s and corresponding Hs,Tp(refer to Table 2), in the healthy
and damaged states: ( a) damage level 50%; ( b) damage level 40%; ( c) damage level 30%; ( d) damage
level 20%; ( e) damage level 14%; ( f) damage level 10%. For the Welch estimate: Hamming Window;
window size: 350; fs= 5 Hz; sample size N=8500; overlap: 95%.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 11 of 30
In Figure 4, the green areas correspond to the healthy state under the EOCs specified
in Table 2, while the red areas correspond to the damaged states with damage levels of
{50, 40, 30, 20, 14 and 10} %, also under varying EOCs. The challenge in the damage
detection problem lies in the difficulty of distinguishing whether the measured dynamics
of a signal under an unknown state reside in the healthy (green area) or the damaged state
(red area). As depicted in the figure, the complexity of this task escalates substantially
as the examined damage levels decrease. Specifically, in Figure 4a,b, the introduction of
a 50% and 40% stiffness reduction, indicative of major damage, significantly influences
the structural dynamics within the frequency range of [1.5–2.5 ]Hz, facilitating a more
pronounced differentiation between the healthy and damaged areas. Stiffness reductions of
30% and 20% (shown in Figure 4c,d), representative of moderate damage levels, introduce
a more subtle impact on the structural dynamics; nevertheless, in these instances, the two
areas are discernible as well. Finally, instances characterized by 10% and 14% stiffness
reduction (depicted in Figure 4e,f), indicative of minor damage, yield a negligible effect on
the structural dynamics. Consequently, the healthy and damaged regions become nearly
indistinguishable.
The PSD serves as a reflection of the frequency contents present in the measured
vibration signals. It encapsulates information regarding the structural dynamics across
the frequency bandwidth induced by the wind and waves and will, therefore, exhibit high
sensitivity to uncertainties stemming from these ambient excitations. As previously stated,
the TF may exhibit reduced sensitivity to such uncertainties, enhancing the resilience of the
damage detection methods.
The use of TF necessitates good coherence between the employed signals, with values
close to unity, indicating low signal-to-noise ratio and measurement errors as well as weak
nonlinear or time-variant behavior of the structure [42] (pp. 20, 135):
C(ω)=Sy2y1(jω)2
Sy1y1(ω)Sy2y2(ω)(2)
To verify that the TF can be used, the coherence function was assessed for each possible
combination of measuring positions. The position combinations with the best coherence
function values are shown in Figure 6. It is worth noting that a relatively good coherence
was observed only among responses in the x direction and between adjacent measuring
positions, excluding pairs 1–2, 2–3, 3–4, 4–5 and 15–16. This may be attributed to the
wind and wave directions in relation to the mooring line topology (see Figure 3a) and
the closeness of the adjacent measuring positions (Figure 3b). As shown in Figure 3a, the
mooring line under examination extends in the x-direction, which is aligned with the wind
and wave propagation directions. This alignment might result in heightened vibrations in
this specific direction. For neighboring sensor positions in the x direction, the coherence
demonstrated favorable values, except within the frequency range of [2.25–2.5] Hz.
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 30 
 
     
(a) ( b) ( c) ( d) 
Figure 6. Coherence function of acceleration signals in  the x direction of measuring positions: ( a) 5–
6; (b) 9–10; ( c) 10–11 and ( d) 12–13. For the Welch estimate: Hamming Window; window size: 350; 
𝑓௦ = 5 Hz; overlap: 95%; Sample size 𝑁 = 8500 . Shown for a case under 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕ =1 0  m/s. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 7. (a) Welchbased PSD of acceleration signals co rresponding to measuring position 11 in the 
x direction and ( b) Welch-based TF of acceleration signals corresponding to positions 10 and 9 in 
the x direction for realizations with di ﬀerent random seeds under 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕ =1 0  m /s. For the Welch 
estimate: Hamming Window; window size: 350; 𝑓௦ = 5 Hz; sample size 𝑁 = 8500 ; overlap: 95%. 
2.6. Selection of the Measuring Positions 
One of the key considerations for selectin g SHM methods is the instrumentation and 
installation cost. In this context, vibration-based methods have an advantage as they re-
quire a relatively small number of sensors wh en they are strategically placed. In the cur-
rent study, the optimal measuring positions we re determined by evaluating the sensitivity 
of the response signals’ PSD and TF to damage. This was achieved through the Frequency 
Response Assurance Criterion ( 𝐹𝑅𝐴𝐶  ), the Frequency Amplitude Assurance Criterion 
(𝐹𝐴𝐴𝐶  ) and the average Local Amplitude Criterion ( 𝐿𝐴𝐶തതതതത ) [29]; vectors are indicated 
throughout this paper by lowercase boldface, and matrices by uppercase boldface sym-bols. 
𝐹𝑅𝐴𝐶 =|𝒉
௢்𝒉ௗ|𝟐
ሺ𝒉௢்𝒉௢)ሺ𝒉ௗ்𝒉ௗ)   (3) 
𝐹𝐴𝐴𝐶 =2|𝒉௢்𝒉ௗ|
ሺ𝒉௢்𝒉௢)+ሺ𝒉ௗ்𝒉ௗ)   (4) 
Figure 6. Coherence function of acceleration signals in the x direction of measuring positions: (a) 5–6 ;
(b) 9–10; ( c) 10–11 and ( d) 12–13. For the Welch estimate: Hamming Window; window size: 350;
fs= 5 Hz; overlap: 95%; Sample size N=8500. Shown for a case under Uhub=10 m/s.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 12 of 30
Based on Figure 5, and in comparison to the PSD shown in Figure 4, it becomes evident
that the TF allows for a clearer distinction between healthy and damaged cases, even in
instances of slight damage (see Figure 5e,f).
In addition to the variability of Uhub,Hs, and Tp, the stochastic nature of wind and
wave excitations is also a source of uncertainty. In this simulated model, this uncertainty
was addressed by employing various random seeds in the pseudorandom generation of
the wind and wave excitations. The influence of this uncertainty is highlighted in Figure 7
where the PSD and the TF are depicted for a specific scenario of EOCs but using different
realizations. In the context of this study, the stochasticity of the wind and wave excitations
was taken into account in the SHM methods by utilizing multiple signals which were
produced during the simulations using different random seeds.
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 30 
 
     
(a) ( b) ( c) ( d) 
Figure 6. Coherence function of acceleration signals in  the x direction of measuring positions: ( a) 5–
6; (b) 9–10; ( c) 10–11 and ( d) 12–13. For the Welch estimate: Hamming Window; window size: 350; 
𝑓௦ = 5 Hz; overlap: 95%; Sample size 𝑁 = 8500 . Shown for a case under 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕ =1 0  m/s. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 7. (a) Welchbased PSD of acceleration signals co rresponding to measuring position 11 in the 
x direction and ( b) Welch-based TF of acceleration signals corresponding to positions 10 and 9 in 
the x direction for realizations with di ﬀerent random seeds under 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕ =1 0  m /s. For the Welch 
estimate: Hamming Window; window size: 350; 𝑓௦ = 5 Hz; sample size 𝑁 = 8500 ; overlap: 95%. 
2.6. Selection of the Measuring Positions 
One of the key considerations for selectin g SHM methods is the instrumentation and 
installation cost. In this context, vibration-based methods have an advantage as they re-
quire a relatively small number of sensors wh en they are strategically placed. In the cur-
rent study, the optimal measuring positions we re determined by evaluating the sensitivity 
of the response signals’ PSD and TF to damage. This was achieved through the Frequency 
Response Assurance Criterion ( 𝐹𝑅𝐴𝐶  ), the Frequency Amplitude Assurance Criterion 
(𝐹𝐴𝐴𝐶  ) and the average Local Amplitude Criterion ( 𝐿𝐴𝐶തതതതത ) [29]; vectors are indicated 
throughout this paper by lowercase boldface, and matrices by uppercase boldface sym-bols. 
𝐹𝑅𝐴𝐶 =|𝒉
௢்𝒉ௗ|𝟐
ሺ𝒉௢்𝒉௢)ሺ𝒉ௗ்𝒉ௗ)   (3) 
𝐹𝐴𝐴𝐶 =2|𝒉௢்𝒉ௗ|
ሺ𝒉௢்𝒉௢)+ሺ𝒉ௗ்𝒉ௗ)   (4) 
Figure 7. (a) Welchbased PSD of acceleration signals corresponding to measuring position 11 in the x
direction and ( b) Welch-based TF of acceleration signals corresponding to positions 10 and 9 in the x
direction for realizations with different random seeds under Uhub=10m/s. For the Welch estimate:
Hamming Window; window size: 350; fs= 5 Hz; sample size N=8500; overlap: 95%.
2.6. Selection of the Measuring Positions
One of the key considerations for selecting SHM methods is the instrumentation and
installation cost. In this context, vibration-based methods have an advantage as they require
a relatively small number of sensors when they are strategically placed. In the current
study, the optimal measuring positions were determined by evaluating the sensitivity of
the response signals’ PSD and TF to damage. This was achieved through the Frequency
Response Assurance Criterion ( FRAC ), the Frequency Amplitude Assurance Criterion
(FAAC ) and the average Local Amplitude Criterion ( LAC ) [29]; vectors are indicated
throughout this paper by lowercase boldface, and matrices by uppercase boldface symbols.
FRAC =hT
ohd2

hT
oho
hT
dhd (3)
FAAC =2hT
ohd

hT
oho
+
hT
dhd (4)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 13 of 30
LAC =1
nωnω
∑
i=12|H∗
o(jωi)Hd(jωi)|
H∗o(jωi)Ho(jωi)+H∗
d(jωi)Hd(jωi)(5)
with oand dthe subscripts designating the healthy and damaged states, respectively,
Tand∗as superscripts indicating matrix or vector transpose and complex conjugation
respectively, |·|the magnitude of a complex quantity, H(jωi)the PSD or TF at frequency
ωi,ha vector consisting of the PSD or TF for successive (discrete) frequencies and nωthe
number of the employed discrete frequency values. The values of these criteria serve as
indicators of sensitivity to damage, with the most sensitive measuring positions being
those that yield the FRAC ,FAAC , and LAC values with the highest deviation from the
unit. From the above equations, each value of the FRAC ,FAAC and LAC was calculated
using the PSDs or TFs of the signals corresponding to individual pairs of healthy hoand
damaged hdstate cases of the same EOCs.
In the current study, to account for the various cases of EOCs and the different damage
levels, the criteria were calculated for multiple pairs of hoandhd. The mean values of these
criteria were then employed to determine the optimal measuring position. Specifically, for
each Uhubfrom the set {7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 }m/s , five criteria values were computed. These
values correspond to pairs of healthy and damaged cases, with damage magnitudes of
{10, 20, 30, 40 and 50}%. As a result, the total number of hoandhdpairs was 30, which
means that 30 values were computed for each measuring position (or measuring position
couples when the TF is used). It is worth noting that the excitation in the healthy and
damaged cases of each signal was generated using distinct random seeds to account for
uncertainty arising from the wind and wave stochasticity.
In Figures 4 and 5, it can be observed that for frequencies under 1Hz, the PSD and
TF are generally highly sensitive to the varying EOCs, while the difference between the
healthy and damaged areas is not significant. For this reason, it was decided to exclude
the[0, 1]Hz frequency bandwidth for the criteria calculation. As discussed in Section 2.5,
the use of the TF requires coherence values close to one. Hence, measuring position pairs
with low coherence were excluded from consideration. Additionally, since all measuring
position pairs exhibited low coherence values beyond 2.25 Hz, frequencies in the range of
[2.25, 2.5 ]Hzwere also excluded from the criteria calculation when the TF was used. In
summary, the frequency bandwidths that were used for the criteria calculations based on
the PSD and TF are [1, 2.5 ]Hz and [1, 2.25 ]Hz, respectively.
For the PSD and TF estimation, the Welch method was applied, utilizing a Hamming
window with a window size of 350 samples and an overlap of 95%. The signals used
had a length of N=8500 samples and a sampling frequency of fs=5Hz. The achieved
frequency resolution is δf=0.0143 Hz, resulting in nω=104PSD and nω=88TF values
for the criteria calculation.
The mean values of the FRAC ,FAAC , and LAC are presented in Figure 8. It is shown
that, using the PSD (see Figure 8a), there was agreement only between the FAAC and
FRAC , pointing to the 10 and 11 positions in the x direction. On the contrary, with the
utilization of the TF (see Figure 8b), all three criteria designated positions 9–10in the x
direction as the optimal measuring locations.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 14 of 30
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 30 
 
 (a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 8. 𝐹𝐴𝐴𝐶 , 𝐹𝑅𝐴𝐶  and 𝐿𝐴𝐶തതതതത criteria for di ﬀerent measuring positions based on: ( a) PSD and 
(b) TF. In ( b), the criteria correspond only to measur ing position pairs with good coherence. 
3. Damage Detection Methodology 
The current section includes a description of the baseline and inspection phases of 
the evaluated SHM methods. Six methods are employed: two MM-based methods, two PCA-based MM methods, and two FM-based methods. The two MM-based methods [28] 
are employed using either VAR models for the representation of the structural dynamics 
[24,25] or TF-ARX models [23]. The methods are abbreviated in these two cases as MM-
VAR and MM-TF-ARX, respectively. The PCA-based MM methods, denoted as PCA-MM, 
represent a re ﬁnement or variant of the MM-based methods, introducing PCA parameter 
reduction before the detection process [28]. In accordance with the MM-based methods, 
two variants of the PCA-MM methods are examined: the PCA-MM-VAR and the PCA-
MM-TF-ARX. Additionally, the FM-based methods [29,30,43–45] are employed utilizing either an FP-VAR [45] or an FP-TF-ARX [30,44] model and are, therefore, abbreviated as 
Figure 8. FAAC ,FRAC and LAC criteria for different measuring positions based on: ( a) PSD and
(b) TF. In ( b), the criteria correspond only to measuring position pairs with good coherence.
3. Damage Detection Methodology
The current section includes a description of the baseline and inspection phases of the
evaluated SHM methods. Six methods are employed: two MM-based methods, two PCA-
based MM methods, and two FM-based methods. The two MM-based methods [ 28] are
employed using either VAR models for the representation of the structural dynamics [ 24,25]
or TF-ARX models [23]. The methods are abbreviated in these two cases as MM-VAR and
MM-TF-ARX, respectively. The PCA-based MM methods, denoted as PCA-MM, represent
a refinement or variant of the MM-based methods, introducing PCA parameter reduction
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 15 of 30
before the detection process [ 28]. In accordance with the MM-based methods, two variants
of the PCA-MM methods are examined: the PCA-MM-VAR and the PCA-MM-TF-ARX.
Additionally, the FM-based methods [ 29,30,43–45] are employed utilizing either an FP-
VAR [ 45] or an FP-TF-ARX [ 30,44] model and are, therefore, abbreviated as FM-VAR and
FM-TF-ARX respectively. All six methods are trained using pairs of signals that are collected
under healthy FOWT operation, with varying EOCs during the baseline phase (see Table 1).
It is noted that the varying EOCs characterized by Uhub(see Section 2.3) are measurable in
both baseline and inspection phases.
3.1. Baseline/Training Phase
During the training phase of the methods, when the FOWT is in the healthy operating
state, Mpairs of acceleration signal y[t]=[y1[t]y2[t]]T,t=1, 2, . . .Nare acquired from
two selected measuring positions. Under each measurement, the Uhubis also recorded by an
anemometer and subsequently normalized to the range of k∈[0, 1], resulting in a discrete
set of ki∈{k1,k2, . . . , kM}, each value of which represents the EOCs of the respective
measurement. The complete baseline dataset can, therefore, be designated as [43]:
ZNM≜
y1,ki[t],y2,ki[t],ki∈ {k1,k2, . . . , kM}o
(6)
3.1.1. Multiple Models (MM)-Based Methods
In the MM-based methods, Mmodels are estimated based on the acquired pairs of
signals [27,28]:
SM
o≜So,kiki∈{k1,k2, . . . , kM}o
(7)
The VAR and TF-ARX models used in the MM-based methods are concisely presented
in the following.
VAR Model
A two-response VAR model can be expressed as [46] (pp. 4–5):
y[t]+na
∑
τ=1Aτ·y[t−τ]=w[t],w[t]∼iidN(0,Σw),
E
w[t]·wT[t−τ]	=Σw·δ[τ],(8)
where nadesignates the model order, Aτthe model [2 ×2] parameter matrix, E{·}statistical
expectation, w[t]=[w1[t]w2[t]]Ta [2×1] residual vector which ideally is composed of
two zero-mean white noise signals following joint identically independent (iid) normal
distribution N(0,Σw)with [2 ×2] covariance matrix Σwand δ[τ]the Kronecker delta
(δ[τ]=1forτ=0andδ[τ]=0forτ̸=0). By rearranging the Aτmatrices’ elements into a
[4na×1]vector, the parameter vector [46] (p. 70) is formed:
θ=vec
A1A2. . .AnaT
(9)
where vec(·)signifies vectorization. An estimation of θfor each individual kicase of the ZNM
dataset can be obtained using the ordinary least square (OLS) estimator [46] (pp. 69–72):
ˆθ=h
ΦTΦi−1
·h
ΦTyi
(10)
where ˆdesignates estimate or estimator, y=[y[1], . . . , y[N]]Tthe[2N×1]response
signal for t=1,. . .,NandΦthe model’s [2N×4na]regression matrix including the
acceleration signals; see more details about the construction of Φin [22] (pp. 545–546).
Having estimated the parameters of the model, the estimated residual signals (one-step-
ahead prediction errors) w
t,ˆθ
can be obtained based on Equation (8) [ 46] (p. 94). It is
worth emphasizing that w
t,ˆθ
approximates white noise only if the model can accurately
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 16 of 30
represent the structural dynamics. The residual signals’ uncorrelatedness can, therefore,
be assessed to validate the estimated model. The [4na×4na]covariance matrix of the
estimated parameters is given by [46] (p. 74):
ˆΣθ=ˆΣw⊗h
ΦTΦi−1
(11)
where ˆΣwis the covariance matrix of w
t,ˆθ
and⊗the Kronecker product.
TF-ARX Model
A TF-ARX model can be expressed as [22]:
y2[t]+na
∑
τ=1aτ·y2[t−τ]=nb
∑
τ=0bτ·y1[t−τ]+w[t],w[t]∼iidN 
0,σ2
w
,
E
w[t]·wT[t−τ]	=σ2
w·δ[τ](12)
where na,nbthe AR and X orders of the model, aτand bτthe AR and X parameters,
and w[t]the model’s residuals, which ideally is a zero-mean white noise signal following
an iid normal distribution N 
0,σ2
w
with variance σ2
w. The model estimation, similar to
the VAR model, is performed using OLS (see Equation (10)). To do so, the parameter
vector θ[na+nb+1×1], the regression matrix Φ[N×na+nb+1]and the signal vector
y[N×1]should be structured appropriately [ 22] (pp. 203–204). The estimated parameters
covariance matrix is, in this case, given by [22] (pp. 551–553):
ˆΣθ=ˆσ2
w·h
ΦTΦi−1
(13)
with ˆσ2
w, the variance of the estimated residual signal w
t,ˆθ
.
By estimating one model for each ki, a collection of parameter vectors ˆθkiis obtained.
This collection forms a discrete subspace [ 28] that represents the dynamics of the healthy
structure under the different EOCs corresponding to the baseline cases ki∈{k1,k2, . . . , kM}
(see example using three model parameters in Figure 9a). This means that during the
inspection phase if the kof an unknown case is not included in the ones considered in the
baseline phase ( k/∈{k1,k2, . . . , kM}), the corresponding dynamics of the freshly acquired
signals may not be adequately described by any of the baseline models SM
o, even if the
structure is in the healthy state. Therefore, a false alarm will be triggered.
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 16 of 30 
 
 𝜮෡𝜽=𝜮෡𝒘⊗[𝜱ఁ𝜱]ିଵ (11) 
where 𝜮෡𝒘 is the covariance matrix of 𝒘ൣ𝑡, 𝜽 ෡൧ and ⊗ the Kronecker product. 
TF-ARX Model 
A TF-ARX model can be expressed as [22]: 
𝑦ଶ[𝑡]+෍𝑎 ఛ∙𝑦ଶ[𝑡−𝜏 ]௡ೌ
ఛୀଵ=෍ 𝑏 ఛ∙𝑦ଵ[𝑡−𝜏 ]௡್
ఛୀ଴+𝑤 [𝑡],𝑤 [𝑡]~iid 𝒩 ሺ0, 𝜎 ௪ଶ), 
𝐸{𝑤[𝑡]∙𝑤்[𝑡−𝜏 ]}=𝜎 ௪ଶ∙𝛿[𝜏] (12) 
where 𝑛௔, 𝑛௕ the AR and X orders of the model, 𝑎ఛ and 𝑏ఛ the AR and X parameters, 
and 𝑤[𝑡] the model’s residuals, which ideally is a zero-mean white noise signal following 
an iid normal distribution 𝒩ሺ0, 𝜎𝑤2) with variance 𝜎௪ଶ. The model estimation, similar to 
the VAR model, is performed using OLS (see Equation (10)). To do so, the parameter vec-
tor 𝜽 [𝑛௔+𝑛 ௕+1×1 ], the regression matrix 𝜱 [𝑁×𝑛 ௔+𝑛 ௕+1] and the signal vector 
𝒚 [𝑁×1 ] should be structured appropriately [2 2] (pp. 203–204). The estimated parame-
ters covariance matrix is, in this case, given by [22] (pp. 551–553): 
𝜮෡𝜽=𝜎ො௪ଶ∙[𝜱ఁ𝜱]ିଵ (13) 
with 𝜎ො௪ଶ, the variance of the estimated residual signal 𝑤ൣ𝑡, 𝜽 ෡൧. 
By estimating one model for each 𝑘௜ , a collection of parameter vectors 𝜽෡௞೔  is ob-
tained. This collection forms a discrete subspace  [28] that represents the dynamics of the 
healthy structure under the di ﬀerent EOCs corresponding to the baseline cases 𝑘௜∈
{𝑘ଵ,𝑘ଶ,…,𝑘 ெ} (see example using three model parameters in Figure 9a). This means that 
during the inspection phase if the 𝑘 of an unknown case is not included in the ones con-
sidered in the baseline phase ( 𝑘∉ {𝑘ଵ,𝑘ଶ,…,𝑘 ெ} ), the corresponding dynamics of the 
freshly acquired signals may not be adequately described by any of the baseline models 
𝒮௢ெ, even if the structure is in the healthy state.  Therefore, a false alarm will be triggered. 
  
(a) ( b) ( c)  
Figure 9. Representation of the structural dynamics: ( a) discrete subspace representation based on 
MM; ( b) subspace dimensionality reduction using PCA; ( c) continuous subspace representation 
based on an FP model. Green dots in (a) and (b) represent cases of di ﬀerent EOCs. In (b), the blue 
and red axes correspond to principal components, where the blue represents a component with low 
variability, and the red with arrows repres ents components with high variability. 
3.1.2. Principal Component Analysis (PCA)-Based Variants of the MM Methods 
The idea behind the use of PCA for the improvement of the MM methods is to reduce 
the dimensionality of the healthy subspace through the exclusion of components that are signiﬁcantly in ﬂuenced by EOCs (see Figure 9b). To implement the PCA-MM methods, a 
set of baseline models 𝒮
௢ெ is initially estimated, as wi th the MM-based methods. Then, 
the cross-case covariance matrix of the models’ parameters is estimated [28]: 
Figure 9. Representation of the structural dynamics: ( a) discrete subspace representation based on
MM; ( b) subspace dimensionality reduction using PCA; ( c) continuous subspace representation based
on an FP model. Green dots in ( a,b) represent cases of different EOCs. In ( b), the blue and red axes
correspond to principal components, where the blue represents a component with low variability,
and the red with arrows represents components with high variability.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 17 of 30
3.1.2. Principal Component Analysis (PCA)-Based Variants of the MM Methods
The idea behind the use of PCA for the improvement of the MM methods is to reduce
the dimensionality of the healthy subspace through the exclusion of components that are
significantly influenced by EOCs (see Figure 9b). To implement the PCA-MM methods, a
set of baseline models SM
ois initially estimated, as with the MM-based methods. Then, the
cross-case covariance matrix of the models’ parameters is estimated [28]:
P=1
MM
∑
i=1ˆθki·ˆθT
ki(14)
and subsequently decomposed as [28]:
P=UΛUT(15)
withΛ=diag(Λ1,Λ2, . . . ,Λn)being a diagonal matrix containing the eigenvalues of
matrix Pin descending order and Ua matrix with the respective eigenvectors. Each
eigenvalue indicates the corresponding eigenvector’s contribution to the overall parameter
variability. The first qcolumns of Ulinked to the higher eigenvalues represent the principal
components with the greatest contribution to the estimated parameter’s variability. It is
presumed that these components are significantly affected by uncertainties present in the
baseline phase, such as those stemming from the varying Uhub, and, therefore, they are
excluded, while the remaining mcomponents are considered relatively unaffected by those
uncertainties and are retained. The number of neglected principal components q, can be
determined based on the user-selected fraction of vector variability reduction γ(%) [28]:
q=min
l(
l∈[1, . . . , n]|γ≤∑l
j=1Λj
∑n
j=1Λj100 %)
(16)
where nis the size of vector ˆθ, which is n=4nafor VAR models and n=na+nb+1
for TF-ARX models. Then, by selecting the m=n−qlast columns of U, a matrix Um
is formed, which can be used to obtain a reduced version of ˆθ,which is less affected by
uncertainties [28]:
ˆθ*=UT
mˆθ (17)
ˆΣθ*=UT
mˆΣθUT
m, (18)
where ˆΣθ*, is the covariance matrix of ˆθ*.
A fundamental element of this method is that the cross-case covariance matrix P,
contrary to the covariance matrix ˆΣθ(given from Equations (11) and (13)), is estimated
using ˆθfrom different kicases. Consequently, Pincorporates variability arising not only
from the stochasticity of the acquired signals but also from the uncertainties present in the
baseline phase, such as those due to varying Uhub. It should be noted that the selection of
high values of γmay result in the neglect of components that are also sensitive to damage.
To prevent this from happening, data from the damaged structure may also be used [ 47].
Otherwise, for unsupervised damage detection, which is considered in the current study,
the choice of γcan only be arbitrary, and this is a disadvantage of this method.
3.1.3. Functional Model (FM)-Based Methods
An alternative strategy for utilizing signals from a finite set of discrete EOCs while
avoiding errors due to kvalues not introduced in the training phase is to develop a unified
model ( So)with parameters that explicitly depend on k, spanning its entire continuous
range [ 29,30,43–45] (see Figure 9c). This strategy may be enacted by interpolating the
parameters of the models estimated under discrete kicases ( ki∈{k1,k2, . . . , kM}), yield-
ing new model parameters for any intermediate k(k/∈{k1,k2, . . . , kM}) that may be
encountered during inspection. Despite its simplicity, this approach is suboptimal, as the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 18 of 30
estimation of a model for each kiseparately results in an unnecessarily large number of
estimated parameters [ 44]. Moreover, this method overlooks correlations between different
sets of signals during the estimation process, leading to an underutilization of available
information. To address these drawbacks, the objective of establishing a single global model
with functional parameters is accomplished in a statistically optimal manner through the
utilization of FP-VAR and FP-TF-ARX models of the following form:
FP-VAR Model
The two-response FP-VAR model is formulated as follows [45]:
yk[t]+na
∑
τ=1Aτ(k)·y[t−τ]=wk[t],wk[t]∼iidN(0,Σw(k)),
En
wkl[t]·wT
km[t−τ]o
=Σw(kl,km)·δ[τ],kl,km∈[0, 1](19)
Aτ(k)=p
∑
jAτ,j·Gj(k) (20)
where, yk[t]=[y1,k[t]y2,k[t]]Tthe [2 ×1] response vector, Aτ(k)the [2 ×2] parameter
matrix, which is expressed as an explicit function of k,wk[t]=[w1,k[t]w2,k[t]]Tthe [2×1]
serially uncorrelated zero-mean residual (white noise) signal following an iid normal dis-
tribution N(0,Σw(k))with covariance matrix Σw(k), andΣw(kl,km)the cross-covariance
matrix of the white noise signals wkl[t]andwkm[t]under kland km, respectively.
FP-TF-ARX Model
The FP-TF-ARX model is formulated as [44]:
y2,k[t]+na
∑
τ=1aτ(k)·y2,k[t−τ]=nb
∑
τ=0bτ(k)·y1,k[t−τ]+wk[t],
wk[t]∼iidN 
0,σ2
w(k)
,En
wkl[t]·wT
km[t−τ]o
=γkl,km·δ[τ](21)
aτ(k)=p
∑
j=1aτ,j·Gj(k),bτ(k)=p
∑
j=1bτ,j·Gj(k) (22)
where na,nbare the AR and X orders of the model, aτ(k)and bτ(k)are its AR and X
parameters which are explicit functions of k, and wk[t]a zero-mean, serially uncorrelated
residual (white noise) signal which follows an iid normal distribution N 
0,σ2
w(k)
with
variance σ2
w(k)and cross-covariance γkl,km.
Equations (20) and (22) indicate that the model parameters are formed through the
linear combination of the pmutually independent basis functions Gj(k). These functions
establish a functional p-dimensional subspace in which the model parameters reside, with
Aτ,jand aτ,j,bτ,jcorresponding to the projection coefficients of the FP-VAR and FP-TF-ARX
models, respectively. Any family of orthogonal polynomials may be equivalently used,
with the most common choices being the orthogonal Chebyshev and Legendre polynomials.
Equations (19) and (21) state that the residual signals, much like in the simple VAR
and ARX models, are serially independent. However, in the FP models, they may be cross-
sectionally correlated, meaning that they are correlated across realizations with different
k(kl̸=km). While this holds true for FP models in general, in the current application,
different kvalues correspond to entirely distinct time instances. Therefore, the residual
signals between different kishould also be uncorrelated.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 19 of 30
FP Model Estimation
To estimate the FP models’ projection coefficients, Equations (19) and (21) are brought
to the form [44,45]:
y=Φ·θ+w (23)
where yis a vector containing the response series for each time instant and all ki∈
{k1,k2, . . . , kM}values, Φthe regression matrix with dimensions [N M×(na+nb+1)p]
for the FP-TF-ARX [ 44] and [2NM×4na·p]for the FP-VAR [ 45],wis a vector containing
the respective residual signals (for all ki), and θthe vector containing the parameters
projection coefficients, which are estimated using typical OLS [44,45]:
ˆθ=
ΦTΦ−1
·ΦTy (24)
For the estimation of the mentioned models, appropriate orders na,nb, basis function
type and functional subspace dimensionalities pneed to be selected. This problem can be
solved in two steps. In the first step, the VAR and TF-ARX orders can be selected based on
individual pairs of signals under different ki. Then, the basis function type and pcan be
selected, assuming that the same orders naand nbapply in the FP versions of the models.
The system identification process is presented in further detail in Section 4, along with the
criteria for the order selection.
For notation’s simplicity, the same symbols na,nb,p,θare used in the VAR, TF-ARX,
FP-VAR and FP-TF-ARX models without necessarily being equal.
3.2. Inspection Phase
In the inspection phase of the methods, a new pair of acceleration signal pairs yu[t]=
[y1,u[t]y2,u[t]]Tis measured along with kduring the FOWT’s current (unknown) operation.
3.2.1. MM-Based and PCA-MM Methods
In the MM-based methods [ 28], from the collection of the baseline models ( SM
o, see
Equation (7)), the model corresponding to the ki, which is closest to the current measure-
ment kis selected ( So,k). The estimated parameters ˆθofSo,kare obtained based on the
Equation (10) and they are symbolized as ˆθo. Using the acquired signals yu[t]under the
current structural state, a new VAR or TF-ARX model Su,krepresenting the dynamics of
the unknown-state system is estimated with the same order(s) as the baseline models, and
the corresponding parameter vector ˆθuis obtained. The characteristic quantity used in
this method for detection is the parameter vector of each model. A significant change in
the structural dynamics due to damage will also affect the models’ parameters. Therefore,
the distance between the parameters of So,kandSu,kcan be used as an indicator for the
existence of damage. In the current study, the Mahalanobis distance is used [48]:
δˆθ=r
(ˆθo−ˆθu)T
Σˆθo−1 ˆθo−ˆθu
(25)
where with covariance matrix Σˆθoofˆθogiven from Equation (11) for VAR models or
Equation (13) for TF-RX models. If, during the selection of the So,kmodel, the measured k
matches multiple cases from the SM
omodel collection, a δˆθis calculated for each, and the
minimum among them δˆθminis used. A decision about damage detection is then made if
δˆθminis greater than a user-specified threshold llim[28]:
δˆθmin≤llim⇒Healthy state
δˆθmin>llim⇒Damaged state(26)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 20 of 30
In the PCA-MM methods, the same process is followed, with the difference that δˆθis
calculated using the transformed parameters ˆθ*:
δˆθ*=s

ˆθ*o−ˆθ*uT
Σˆθ*o−1
ˆθ*o−ˆθ*u
(27)
with ˆθ*othe transformed parameter vector of ˆθo(see Equation (17)), Σˆθ*othe covariance
matrix of ˆθ*o(see Equation (18)) and ˆθ*uthe transformed parameter vector of ˆθu.
3.2.2. FM-Based Method
In the FM-V AR and FM-TF-ARX methods, the measured kis used on Equations (20) and (22) ,
respectively, for the reparameterization of the global models So. Under the current kvalue,
the FP-VAR and FM-TF-ARX models of Equations (19) and (21) receive the form of the
regular VAR and TF-ARX models. These models, representing the healthy state structural
dynamics under the current EOCs, are used to make one-step predictions of the acquired
signals yu[t]. As mentioned in Section 3.1.1, if the structural dynamics are adequately
represented from the model, its residual wu
t,ˆθ
orwu
t,ˆθ
should be uncorrelated, while
any deviation between the model’s and the actual structural dynamics will lead to nonwhite
residuals. Therefore, a decision about the existence of damage can be made by applying
a Portmanteau uncorrelatedness test on the model’s residuals. In the case of the FP-VAR
model-based method, the metric used for the detection is the statistic Qmof the multivariate
portmanteau test [46] (p. 169):
Qm=Nh
∑
τ=1tr
CτC−1
0CτC−1
0
∼χ2
dm(28)
where his the number of lags, dmthe degrees of freedom of the distribution which are
dm=4(h−na)for a [2 ×1]wu[t]andCτthe autocovariance matrix:
Cτ=1
NT
∑
t=τ+1wu[t]wT
u[t−τ] (29)
For the FP-TF-ARX models-based method, the Ljung–Box test statistic is used [49]:
Q=N(N+2)h
∑
τ=1ρw(τ)
N−τ∼χ2
d(30)
where ρw(τ)is the Autocorrelation Function (ACF) of the residual signal wu[t]andd=h−na−nb
are the degrees of freedom of the distribution. In both cases, a decision about damage
existence can be made based on the Qmand Qtheoretical (1 −a) critical values:
FM−VAR :Qm≤Qm,crit=χ2
dm,1−a⇒Healthy state
Qm>Qm,crit=χ2
dm,1−a⇒Damaged state(31)
FM−TF−ARX :Q≤Qcrit=χ2
d, 1−a⇒Healthy state
Q>Qcrit=χ2
d, 1−a⇒Damaged state(32)
A summary of the general concept of the employed damage detection methods is
presented in Figure 10.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 21 of 30
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 21 of 30 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 10. Damage detection framework: ( a) baseline phase process diagram; ( b) inspection phase 
process diagram. 
4. Assessment of Damage Detection Methods through Monte Carlo Simulations 
In this section, the performance of the methods outlined in Section 3 is assessed and 
compared. Speci ﬁcally, outcomes from the system identi ﬁcation process occurring in the 
baseline phase of the methods are presented, followed by the detection results for a sub-
stantial number of known healthy and damag ed cases. For the methods that utilize VAR 
and FP-VAR models, the used acceleration si gnals correspond to measuring positions 10 
and 11 in the x direction, while for those that utilize TF-ARX and FP-TF-ARX, signals from positions 9 and 10 in the x direction were used—see Figure3b. 
4.1. Baseline/Training Phase 
The data used in the baseline phase correspond to scenarios of healthy operation, 
with EOCs characterized by six distinct values of 𝑈ഥ
௛௨௕ (see Table 2). For each scenario, 
ten simulations were conducted using di ﬀerent random seeds, resulting in a baseline da-
taset 𝑍ேெ comprising 𝑀=6 0  pairs of signals, each with the length of 𝑁 = 8500  values. 
Figure 10. Damage detection framework: ( a) baseline phase process diagram; ( b) inspection phase
process diagram.
4. Assessment of Damage Detection Methods through Monte Carlo Simulations
In this section, the performance of the methods outlined in Section 3 is assessed
and compared. Specifically, outcomes from the system identification process occurring in
the baseline phase of the methods are presented, followed by the detection results for a
substantial number of known healthy and damaged cases. For the methods that utilize
VAR and FP-VAR models, the used acceleration signals correspond to measuring positions
10 and 11 in the x direction, while for those that utilize TF-ARX and FP-TF-ARX, signals
from positions 9 and 10 in the x direction were used—see Figure 3b.
4.1. Baseline/Training Phase
The data used in the baseline phase correspond to scenarios of healthy operation,
with EOCs characterized by six distinct values of Uhub(see Table 2). For each scenario, ten
simulations were conducted using different random seeds, resulting in a baseline dataset
ZNMcomprising M=60 pairs of signals, each with the length of N=8500 values.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 22 of 30
4.1.1. MM-Based Methods
In the MM-based methods, the primary goal is to determine the most suitable orders
for the V AR and TF-ARX models. To achieve this, several criteria were considered, including
the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), the Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC) and the
model-based PSD or TF convergence to their nonparametric (Welch-based) counterparts [ 50].
These criteria were tested for several cases corresponding to different Uhub. For the VAR
models, a good approximation of the structural dynamics was given with order na=90. The
adequacy of this order is demonstrated in Figure 11, where the model’s PSD is compared to
its nonparametric estimate for a healthy case with Uhub=10 m/s.
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 22 of 30 
 
 4.1.1. MM-Based Methods 
In the MM-based methods, the primary goal is  to determine the most suitable orders 
for the VAR and TF-ARX models. To achieve this , several criteria were considered, includ-
ing the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), the Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC) and 
the model-based PSD or TF convergence to their nonparametric (Welch-based) counter-
parts [50]. These criteria were tested for several cases corresponding to di ﬀerent 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕. For 
the VAR models, a good approximation of the structural dynamics was given with order 
𝑛௔=9 0 . The adequacy of this order is demonstra ted in Figure 11, where the model’s PSD 
is compared to its nonparametric estimate for a healthy case with 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕=1 0  m/s.  
During the TF-ARX identi ﬁcation, notable discrepancies between the models’ and 
the nonparametric estimates of the TF were observed even for high model orders. These 
discrepancies were located mainly within the frequency ranges of [0.5–0.6] Hz and [1.7–
2.5] Hz and can be associated with the low co herence function at these frequencies (see 
Figure 12). Nevertheless, as with the VAR models, orders 𝑛௔=𝑛 ௕=9 0  were selected for 
the TF-ARX model based on its accurate  one-step prediction, see Figure 13. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 11. VAR(90) model-based PSD, and nonparametric PSD Welch estimate: ( a) Autospectral den-
sity 𝑆௬భ௬భ; (b) Autospectral density 𝑆௬మ௬మ. For the Welch estimate: Ha mming Window; window size: 
350; 𝑓௦ = 5 Hz; sample size 𝑁 = 8500;  overlap: 95%. Shown for case under 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕ =1 0  m/s. 
Figure 11. VAR(90) model-based PSD, and nonparametric PSD Welch estimate: ( a) Autospectral
density Sy1y1; (b) Autospectral density Sy2y2. For the Welch estimate: Hamming Window; window
size: 350; fs= 5 Hz; sample size N=8500; overlap: 95%. Shown for case under Uhub=10 m/s.
During the TF-ARX identification, notable discrepancies between the models’ and the
nonparametric estimates of the TF were observed even for high model orders. These dis-
crepancies were located mainly within the frequency ranges of [0.5–0.6] Hz and [1.7–2.5] Hz
and can be associated with the low coherence function at these frequencies (see Figure 12).
Nevertheless, as with the VAR models, orders na=nb=90 were selected for the TF-ARX
model based on its accurate one-step prediction, see Figure 13.
4.1.2. PCA-MM Methods
To reduce the parameter subspace dimensionality with the PCA-MM methods, a
decrease in variability of γ=99 % was considered [ 28], which led to the selection of
135 components for the TF-ARX models and 314 components for the VAR models out of
their original 181 and 360 parameters, respectively. The advantage of the PCA-MM over the
simpler MM-based methods is demonstrated in Figure 14. In the figure, two scatter plots
are compared, representing each condition with two TF-ARX parameters (see Figure 14a)
and with two of the selected principal components (see Figure 14b). The performance of
each method depends on the parameters’ or principal components’ sensitivity to damage
and to EOCs. In Figure 14, the sensitivity to damage is highlighted by the minimum
distance between damaged and healthy states (red arrows), while the sensitivity to EOCs is
highlighted by the maximum distance between cases of the healthy state (blue lines). It is
shown that in the MM-based method (see Figure 14a), the sensitivity to EOCs (blue arrows)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 23 of 30
is much higher than the sensitivity to damage (red line), while the opposite holds true for
the PCA-MM method (see Figure 14b).
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 23 of 30 
 
  
Figure 12. TF-ARX(90,90) model-based TF, Welch-based TF  and coherence Welch estimates. For the 
Welch estimates: Hamming Window; window size: 350; 𝑓௦ = 5 Hz; sample size 𝑁 = 8500 ; overlap: 
95%. Shown for case under 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕ =1 0  m/s. 
  
(a) ( b) 
Figure 13. TF-ARX(90,90) model validation: ( a) one-step predictions and ( b) residual signals’ Auto-
correlation Function (ACF). Shown for healthy case under 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕ =1 0  m/s. 
4.1.2. PCA-MM Methods 
To reduce the parameter subspace dimens ionality with the PCA-MM methods, a de-
crease in variability of 𝛾 = 99 %  was considered [28], which led to the selection of 135 
components for the TF-ARX models and 314 co mponents for the VAR models out of their 
original 181 and 360 parameters, respectively. The advantage of the PCA-MM over the simpler MM-based methods is demonstrated in Figure 14. In the ﬁgure, two sca tter plots 
are compared, representing each condition wi th two TF-ARX parameters (see Figure 14a) 
and with two of the selected principal comp onents (see Figure 14b). The performance of 
each method depends on the parameters’ or principal components’ sensitivity to damage 
and to EOCs. In Figure 14, the sensitivity to  damage is highlighted by the minimum dis-
tance between damaged and healthy states (red arrows), while the sensitivity to EOCs is 
highlighted by the maximum distance between ca ses of the healthy state (blue lines). It is 
shown that in the MM-based method (see Figure  14a), the sensitivity to EOCs (blue ar-
rows) is much higher than the sensitivity to damage (red line), while the opposite holds true for the PCA-MM method (see Figure 14b). 
Figure 12. TF-ARX(90,90) model-based TF, Welch-based TF and coherence Welch estimates. For the
Welch estimates: Hamming Window; window size: 350; fs= 5 Hz; sample size N=8500 ; overlap:
95%. Shown for case under Uhub=10 m/s.
Sensors 2024,  24, x FOR PEER REVIEW  23 of 30 
 
  
Figure 12. TF -ARX(90,90) model -based TF, Welch -based TF and coherence Welch estimates. For the 
Welch estimates: Hamming Window; window size: 350; 𝑓𝑓𝑠𝑠 = 5 Hz; sample size 𝑁𝑁=8500; overlap: 
95%. Shown for case under 𝑈𝑈�ℎ𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢=10 m/s.  
  
(a) (b) 
Figure 13. TF -ARX(90,90) model validation: (a) one -step predictions and ( b) residual signals’ Auto-
correlation Function (ACF). Shown for healthy case under 𝑈𝑈�ℎ𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢=10 m/s.  
4.1.2. PCA -MM Methods  
To reduce the parameter subspace dimensionality with the PCA -MM methods, a de-
crease in variability of 𝛾𝛾=99 % was considered [28], which led to the selection of 135 
components for the TF -ARX models and 314 components for the VAR models out of their 
original 181 and 360 parameters, respectively. The advantage of the PCA -MM over the 
simpler MM- based methods is demo nstrated in Figure 14. In the ﬁgure, two scatter plots 
are compared, representing each condition with two TF -ARX parameters (see Figure 14a) 
and with two of the selected principal components (see Figure 14b). The performance of 
each method depends on the parameters’ or principal components’ sensitivity to damage 
and to EOCs. In Figure 14, the sensitivity to damage is highlighted by the minimum dis-
tance between damaged and healthy states (red arrows) , while the sensitivity to EOCs is 
highlighted by the maximum distance between cases of the healthy state (blue lines). It is 
shown that in the MM -based method (see Figure 14a), the sensitivity to EOCs (blue ar-
rows) is much higher than the sensitivity to damage (red line), while the opposite holds true for the PCA -MM method (see Figure 14b).  
Figure 13. TF-ARX(90,90) model validation: ( a) one-step predictions and ( b) residual signals’ Auto-
correlation Function (ACF). Shown for healthy case under Uhub=10 m/s.
4.1.3. FM-Based Method
The FP model structure identification based on the baseline dataset ZMNinvolves the
naand nborders determination, as well as the selection of the appropriate basis function
type and dimensionality [ 43,44]. To simplify the identification problem, the decision was
made to employ the same orders as those used for the corresponding VAR and TF-ARX
models. For the basis functions, Legendre polynomials of one variable were employed,
where each function Gi(k)corresponds to a distinct polynomial order, see Figure 15. The
number and combination of Legendre polynomial orders were determined by minimizing
the BIC criterion tested for different combinations. The resulting structures for the FP-VAR
and FP-TF-ARX models are presented in Table 3.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 24 of 30
Sensors 2024,  24, x FOR PEER REVIEW  24 of 30 
 
   
(a) (b) 
Figure 14. (a) TF -ARX parameter scatter plot for healthy and damaged conditions; ( b) TF-ARX PCA 
component scatter plot for healthy and damaged conditions. Blue arrows: the maximum distance 
among all healthy cases of the baseline phase; red arrows: the minimum distance between a dam-
aged case and all healthy cases of the baseline phase.  
4.1.3. FM-Based Method  
The FP model structure identiﬁcation based on the baseline dataset 𝑍𝑍𝑀𝑀𝑁𝑁 involves the 
𝑛𝑛𝑎𝑎 and 𝑛𝑛𝑢𝑢 orders determination, as well as the selection of the appropriate basis function 
type and dimensionality [43,44]. To simplify the identiﬁcation problem, the decision was 
made to employ the same orders as those used for the corresponding VAR and TF -ARX 
models. For the basis functions, Legendre polynomials of one variable were employed, 
where each function 𝐺𝐺𝑖𝑖(𝑘𝑘) corresponds to a distinct polynomial order, see Figure 15. The 
number and combination of Legendre polynomial orders were determined by minimizing 
the BIC criterion tested for diﬀerent combinations. The resulting structures for the FP -
VAR and FP -TF-ARX models are presented in Table 3.  
 
Figure 15. First ﬁve Legendre orthogonal polynomials.  
Table 3. FP -VAR and FP-TF -ARX model structure identiﬁcation results.  
Model Type  Orders  Basis Function 
Type  Number of  
Selected Basis 
Functions  Polynomial  
Orders  Number of 
Projection Co-
efficients  Samples per 
Projection   
Coeffi cient  
FP-VAR  𝑛𝑛𝑎𝑎=90 Legendre polyno-
mials  𝑝𝑝=5 0,1,2,3,4 1800  566.6  
FP-TF-ARX  𝑛𝑛𝑎𝑎=90, 
𝑛𝑛𝑢𝑢=90 𝑝𝑝=4 0,1,2,3 724 1408.9 
Figure 14. (a) TF-ARX parameter scatter plot for healthy and damaged conditions; ( b) TF-ARX PCA
component scatter plot for healthy and damaged conditions. Blue arrows: the maximum distance
among all healthy cases of the baseline phase; red arrows: the minimum distance between a damaged
case and all healthy cases of the baseline phase.
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 30 
 
   
(a) ( b) 
Figure 14. (a) TF-ARX parameter sca tter plot for healthy and damaged conditions; ( b) TF-ARX PCA 
component sca tter plot for healthy and damaged conditio ns. Blue arrows: the maximum distance 
among all healthy cases of the baseline phase; red arrows: the minimum distance between a dam-aged case and all healthy cases of the baseline phase. 
4.1.3. FM-Based Method 
The FP model structure identi ﬁcation based on the baseline dataset 𝑍ெே involves the 
𝑛௔ and 𝑛௕ orders determination, as well as the sele ction of the appropriate basis function 
type and dimensionality [43,44]. To simplify the identi ﬁcation problem, the decision was 
made to employ the same orders as those used for the corresponding VAR and TF-ARX 
models. For the basis functions, Legendre po lynomials of one variable were employed, 
where each function 𝐺௜ሺ𝑘) corresponds to a distinct polynomial order, see Figure 15. The 
number and combination of Legendre polynomi al orders were determined by minimizing 
the BIC criterion tested for di ﬀerent combinations. The resulting structures for the FP-
VAR and FP-TF-ARX models are presented in Table 3. 
 
Figure 15. First ﬁve Legendre orthogonal polynomials. 
Table 3. FP-VAR and FP-TF-ARX model structure identi ﬁcation results. 
Model Type Orders Basis Function 
Type Number of  
Selected Basis 
Functions Polynomial  
Orders Number of 
Projection Co-
efficients Samples per 
Projection  
Coefficient 
FP-VAR 𝑛௔=9 0  Legendre polyno-
mials 𝑝=5  0, 1, 2, 3, 4  1800 566.6 
FP-TF-ARX 𝑛௔= 90,  
𝑛௕=9 0  𝑝=4  0, 1, 2, 3  724 1408.9 
Figure 15. First five Legendre orthogonal polynomials.
Table 3. FP-VAR and FP-TF-ARX model structure identification results.
Model Type OrdersBasis Function
TypeNumber of
Selected Basis
FunctionsPolynomial
OrdersNumber of
Projection
CoefficientsSamples per
Projection
Coefficient
FP-VAR na=90Legendre
polynomialsp=5 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 1800 566.6
FP-TF-ARXna=90,
nb=90p=4 0, 1, 2, 3 724 1408.9
4.2. Inspection Phase
To assess the performance of the six methods, detection outcomes were derived for
cases of known healthy and damaged states. The damage scenarios encompass nine
distinct levels of stiffness reduction from 10% to 50%, as shown in Table 1. For each state,
11 scenarios of varying EOCs were considered (refer to Table 1), and for each scenario,
ten cases were employed, with each case corresponding to a simulation using a different
random seed. It is worth emphasizing that cases with Uhubnot included in the baseline
dataset were also tested in the inspection phase.
As described in Section 3.2, a decision about damage occurrence is determined when
the methods’ metrics exceed certain critical thresholds. In the case of MM-based and
PCA-MM methods, where the metric is the minimum Mahalanobis distance δˆθminorδˆθ*
min
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 25 of 30
(see Equations (25)–(27)), the critical limit llimis user-defined in the baseline phase. For the
FM-based methods, the threshold may be set according to the statistical critical value of the
portmanteau test or alternatively via a user-selected value. The latter option was adopted
in this study, and a user-selected critical limit is employed. For all six methods, the critical
limit was determined based on the respective metric’s empirical distribution obtained from
the cases of the baseline phase. Specifically, each limit was set at three standard deviations
above the mean value of the respective metric.
The damage detection results of each method are shown in Table 4 in terms of false
alarms and correct detections. False alarms refer to instances where known healthy cases are
inaccurately categorized as damaged, while correct detections refer to accurately identified
damage cases. Inspection results are additionally illustrated in Figure 16 using scatter plots.
Each subfigure of Figure 16 corresponds to one of the six employed methods, illustrating
the specific metric values for different inspection cases. The inspection cases which have
similar Uhubvalues (7, 8, . . ., 12 m/s) to the ones used in the baseline phase (see Table 1) are
symbolized with circles while cases with intermediate Uhubvalues (7.4, 8.6, . . ..,11.4 m/s )
with asterisks. The results shown in the figure correspond to the healthy (green) and
damage cases with levels 10% (red) and 14% (blue), which represent minor damage. Within
Table 4, false alarms corresponding to Uhubvalues not encountered in the baseline phase
are also shown separately.
Table 4. Damage detection results overview.
VAR/FP-VARMeasuring positions
10–11 for x directionFalse AlarmsCorrect
Detections
MethodSimilar to
Baseline UhubIntermediate to
Baseline UhubTotalStiffness
Reduction
Levels
10–50%
MM-VAR 1/60 17/50 18/110 990/990
PCA-MM-VAR 0/60 2/50 2/110 990/990
FM-VAR 1/60 1/50 2/110 990/990
TF-ARX/FP-TF-ARXMeasuring positions
10–9 in the x directionFalse AlarmsCorrect
Detections
MethodSimilar to
Baseline UhubIntermediate to
Baseline UhubTotalStiffness
Reduction
Levels:
10–50%
MM-TF-ARX 0/60 0/50 0/110 990/990
PCA-MM-TF-ARX 0/60 0/50 0/110 990/990
FM-TF-ARX 0/60 0/50 0/110 990/990
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 26 of 30
Sensors 2024 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW 26 of 30 
 
   
(a) ( b) 
  
(c) ( d) 
  
(e) ( f) 
 
 
Figure 16. Damage detection results based on the method variations: ( a) MM-VAR; ( b) MM-TF-ARX; 
(c) PCAMM-VAR; ( d) PCA-MM-TF-ARX; ( e) FM-VAR; ( f) FM-TF-ARX. Critical values correspond 
to three standard deviations from the healthy baseline 𝑈ഥ௛௨௕-based metric distributions. Results of 
(a,c,e) correspond to measuring positions 10–11 and ( b,d,f) to 9–10. 
  
Figure 16. Damage detection results based on the method variations: ( a) MM-VAR; ( b) MM-TF-ARX;
(c) PCAMM-VAR; ( d) PCA-MM-TF-ARX; ( e) FM-VAR; ( f) FM-TF-ARX. Critical values correspond to
three standard deviations from the healthy baseline Uhub-based metric distributions. Results of ( a,c,e)
correspond to measuring positions 10–11 and ( b,d,f) to 9–10.
5. Discussion
From the results shown in Table 4 and Figure 16, it is indicated that all six methods
were able to detect damage in the synthetic mooring lines with a 100% correct detection
rate. This holds true even for damage that is slight enough (10% and 14%) to seemingly
have a negligible effect on the structural dynamics (see Figure 4e,f).
A significant rate of false alarms was obtained from the MM-VAR method. As shown
in Table 4 and Figure 16a, the majority of these false alarms are associated with cases of
Uhubvalues that are intermediate to the ones found in the baseline phase. When employing
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 27 of 30
the PCA-MM-VAR (see Figure 16c) and FM-VAR methods (see Figure 16e), the false alarm
rate dropped significantly, aligning with the intended objective of these methods. Methods
MM-TF-ARX (see Figure 16b), PCA-MM-TF-ARX (see Figure 16d) and FM-TF-ARX (see
Figure 16f) exhibited excellent results, with zero false alarms. Based solely on these results,
neither the FM-based nor the PCA-MM methods seem to have an advantage over the
other. However, it’s important to note that the performance of the PCA-MM methods (as
discussed in Section 3.1.2) may depend on the selection of the variability reduction γ, which
is arbitrary in the absence of damaged-state data in the baseline phase. In light of these
observations, it is evident that the FM-TF-ARX method stands out as the most effective
among the evaluated methodologies.
The above results pertain to the implementation of the methods using measuring
positions 10–11 and 9–10 in the x direction, which were selected in Section 2.6 for the VAR
and TF-ARX-based methods, respectively. To assess their sensitivity to the measuring
positions, the methods were also employed using positions with a suboptimal ranking
based on the FRAC ,FAAC and LAC criteria. In particular, measurements from positions
5–6 (see Figure 3b) in the x direction were tested. Based on the results shown in Table 5,
the methods perform equally well with these measuring positions. This is a significant
advantage from a practical point of view, as these positions are located at depths less than
30 m, making sensor installation significantly easier compared to positions 9, 10 and 11,
located at depths around 80 m.
Table 5. Damage detection results employing acceleration signals from measuring positions 5 and 6
in the x direction.
VAR/FP-VARMeasuring positions
6–5 in the x directionFalse AlarmsCorrect
Detections
Method VariationSimilar to
baseline UhubIntermediate to
baseline UhubTotalStiffness
reduction
levels
10–50%
MM-VAR 0/60 18/50 18/110 990/990
PCA-MM-VAR 0/60 3/50 3/110 990/990
FM-VAR 0/60 1/50 1/110 990/990
TF-ARX/FP-TF-ARXMeasuring positions
6–5 in the x directionFalse AlarmsCorrect
Detections
Method VariationSimilar to
baseline UhubIntermediate to
baseline UhubTotalStiffness
reduction
levels
10–50%
MM-TF-ARX 0/60 0/50 0/110 990/990
PCA-MM-TF-ARX 0/60 0/50 0/110 990/990
FM-TF-ARX 0/60 0/50 0/110 990/990
Finally, as depicted in all subfigures of Figure 16, there is a clear ‘separation’ between
the healthy and damaged states. This implies that defining a critical limit capable of
yielding optimal results for any method is feasible, although data from damaged states
would be necessary for such determinations.
6. Conclusions
The problem of damage detection in FOWT synthetic mooring lines under varying
environmental and operational conditions (EOCs) using robust vibration-based SHM
methods has been investigated in this study. Six methods were employed based on either
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 28 of 30
Vector Autoregressive (VAR) or Transmittance Function Autoregressive with exogenous
input (TF-ARX) models. The methods are founded upon either Multiple Models (MM)
or a Functional Model (FM), each serving to represent the structural dynamics under
diverse EOCs, utilizing signals from a limited set of baseline data. The PCA variants of the
MM-based methods were also explored.
The methods were assessed through 1100 Monte-Carlo simulations using data gener-
ated from the finite element model of the OO-Star Wind Floater Semi 10 MW FOWT. The
main conclusions follow:
1. All methods show excellent results, being able to detect even slight damage with
seemingly negligible impact on the structural dynamics;
2. Both PCA-MM-based methods and FM-based methods reduce the false alarm rate
associated with the simpler MM-based methods;
3. The methods utilizing TF-ARX models outperform those using VAR models, achieving
perfect detection with zero false alarms;
4. The above methods present excellent results even if sensors are used at randomly
selected positions on the mooring line. This facilitates robust SHM as sensors at
relatively small depths with simple installation may be employed.
Overall, the results of the current proof-of-concept study indicate that the explored
SHM methods are a viable solution for the remote condition monitoring of synthetic
mooring lines in FOWTs.
Future plans involve exploring various types and magnitudes of early-stage damage
to comprehend the limits of the methods and potentially improve them for damage identifi-
cation, localization, and quantification. Furthermore, the assessment of the methods using
experimental data is also essential, given the unavailability of data from real FOWTs due to
their recent installations.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, N.P .A. and C.S.S.; methodology, N.P .A. and C.S.S.; soft-
ware, N.P .A.; validation, N.P .A.; formal analysis, N.P .A.; investigation, N.P .A.; resources, R.S.; data
curation, C.S.S. and R.S.; writing—original draft preparation, N.P .A. and C.S.S.; writing—review
and editing, N.P .A., C.S.S., R.S. and J.S.S.; visualization, C.S.S. and R.S.; supervision, C.S.S. and
R.S.; project administration, R.S.; funding acquisition, R.S. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research work has been funded by the Research Council of Norway (RCN) through
the project” Analytics for asset Integrity Management of Windfarms (AIMWind)”, a collaboration
between University of Agder, Norwegian Research Center-NORCE AS and Technical University
Delft, grant no. 312486.
Data Availability Statement: The data of this study is available upon request.
Acknowledgments: Origo Solutions is included as an advisory partner in the AIMWind project.
Access to the design of the OO-STAR wind floater has been granted by its current owner Bouygues
Travaux Publics. The development of the FEM of the OO-STAR floater-based FOWT has been funded
by the RCN though the project “Fiber Rope Mooring”, grant. no 296732. The simulations have been
produced by Tor A. Nygaard and Murat Tutkun of the Institute for Energy and Technology (IFE) in
Kjeller, Norway.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
References
1. European Commission Member States Agree New Ambition for Expanding Offshore Renewable Energy. Available online: https://
energy.ec.europa.eu/news/member-states-agree-new-ambition-expanding-offshore-renewable-energy-2023-01-19_en (accessed
on 25 August 2023).
2. U.S. Department of Energy. Offshore Wind Market Report: 2023 Edition ; U.S. Department of Energy: Washington, DC, USA, 2023.
3. Global Wind Energy Council. Global Wind Report 2023 ; Global Wind Energy Council: Brussels, Belgium, 2023.
4. Frohböse, P . Offshore Wind 2023: New Ambitions! New Challenges? Available online: https://www.dnv.com/article/offshore-
wind-2023-new-ambitions-new-challenges--243462# (accessed on 25 August 2023).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 29 of 30
5. Shafiee, M.; Brennan, F.; Espinosa, I.A. A Parametric Whole Life Cost Model for Offshore Wind Farms. Int. J. Life Cycle Assess.
2016 ,21, 961–975. [CrossRef]
6. Rinaldi, G.; Garcia-Teruel, A.; Jeffrey, H.; Thies, P .R.; Johanning, L. Incorporating Stochastic Operation and Maintenance Models
into the Techno-Economic Analysis of Floating Offshore Wind Farms. Appl. Energy 2021 ,301, 117420. [CrossRef]
7. Ren, Z.; Verma, A.S.; Li, Y.; Teuwen, J.J.E.; Jiang, Z. Offshore Wind Turbine Operations and Maintenance: A State-of-the-Art
Review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2021 ,144, 110886. [CrossRef]
8. Equinor Hywind Tampen. Available online: https://www.equinor.com/energy/hywind-tampen (accessed on 30 August 2023).
9. Ciang, C.C.; Lee, J.R.; Bang, H.J. Structural Health Monitoring for a Wind Turbine System: A Review of Damage Detection
Methods. Meas. Sci. Technol. 2008 ,19, 122001. [CrossRef]
10. Li, H.; D íaz, H.; Guedes Soares, C. A Failure Analysis of Floating Offshore Wind Turbines Using AHP-FMEA Methodology. Ocean
Eng. 2021 ,234, 109261. [CrossRef]
11. Bae, Y.H.; Kim, M.H.; Kim, H.C. Performance Changes of a Floating Offshore Wind Turbine with Broken Mooring Line. Renew.
Energy 2017 ,101, 364–375. [CrossRef]
12. Chaplin, C.; Del Vecchio, C. Appraisal of Lightweight Moorings for Deep Water. In Proceedings of the 24th Offshore Technology
Conference, Houston, TX, USA, 4–7 May 1992. [CrossRef]
13. Nordgård-Hansen, E.; Schlanbusch, R. Condition Monitoring and Maintenance for Fibre Rope Moorings in Offshore Wind WP7 FIRM
(Fiber Rope Mooring) ; Aibel: Stavanger, Norway, 2022.
14. Deraemaeker, A.; Worden, K. New Trends in Vibration Based Structural Health Monitoring ; Springer Science & Business Media:
Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2010; Volume 520, ISBN 978-3-7091-0398-2.
15. Oland, E.; Schlanbusch, R.; Falconer, S. Condition Monitoring Technologies for Synthetic Fiber Ropes—A Review. Int. J. Progn.
Health Manag. 2020 ,8. [CrossRef]
16. Gorostidi, N.; Nava, V .; Aristondo, A.; Pardo, D. Predictive Maintenance of Floating Offshore Wind Turbine Mooring Lines Using
Deep Neural Networks. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2022 ,2257 , 012008. [CrossRef]
17. Jamalkia, A.; Ettefagh, M.M.; Mojtahedi, A. Damage Detection of TLP and Spar Floating Wind Turbine Using Dynamic Response
of the Structure. Ocean Eng. 2016 ,125, 191–202. [CrossRef]
18. Dehkharghani, P .H.; Ettefagh, M.M.; Hassannejad, R. Mooring Damage Identification of Floating Wind Turbine Using a Non-
Probabilistic Approach Under Different Environmental Conditions. J. Mar. Sci. Appl. 2021 ,20, 156–169. [CrossRef]
19. Liu, Y.; Ferrari, R.; Wu, P .; Jiang, X.; Li, S.; van Wingerden, J.-W. Fault Diagnosis of the 10MW Floating Offshore Wind Turbine
Benchmark: A Mixed Model and Signal-Based Approach. Renew. Energy 2021 ,164, 391–406. [CrossRef]
20. Fassois, S.D.; Sakellariou, J.S. Statistical Time Series Methods for SHM. In Encyclopedia of Structural Health Monitoring ; John Wiley
& Sons, Ltd.: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2009; ISBN 9780470061626.
21. Zhang, C.; Mousavi, A.A.; Masri, S.F.; Gholipour, G.; Yan, K.; Li, X. Vibration Feature Extraction Using Signal Processing
Techniques for Structural Health Monitoring: A Review. Mech. Syst. Signal. Process 2022 ,177, 109175. [CrossRef]
22. Ljung, L. System Identification: Theory for the User , 2nd ed.; Kailath, T., Ed.; PTR PrenticeHall: Upper Saddle River, NJ, USA, 1987.
23. Poulimenos, A.G.; Sakellariou, J.S. A Transmittance-Based Methodology for Damage Detection under Uncertainty: An Application
to a Set of Composite Beams with Manufacturing Variability Subject to Impact Damage and Varying Operating Conditions. Struct.
Health Monit. 2019 ,18, 318–333. [CrossRef]
24. Kopsaftopoulos, F.; Apostolellis, P .; Fassois, S. Output-Only Parametric Identification of a Scale Cable-Stayed Bridge Structure: A
Comparison of Vector AR and Stochastic Subspace Methods. In Proceedings of the 4th International Operational Modal Analysis
Conference (IOMAC), Istanbul, Turkey, 9–11 May 2011.
25. Kopsaftopoulos, F.; Fassois, S. Scalar and Vector Time Series Methods for Vibration Based Damage Diagnosis in a Scale Aircraft
Skeleton Structure. J. Theor. Appl. Mech. 2011 ,49, 727–756.
26. Entezami, A.; Mariani, S.; Shariatmadar, H. Damage Detection in Largely Unobserved Structures under Varying Environmental
Conditions: An AutoRegressive Spectrum and Multi-Level Machine Learning Methodology. Sensors 2022 ,22, 1400. [CrossRef]
27. Panagiotopoulos, A.; Dmitri, T.; Spilios, F.D. Damage Detection on the Blade of an Operating Wind Turbine via a Single Vibration
Sensor and Statistical Time Series Methods: Exploring the Performance Limits of Robust Methods. Struct. Health Monit. 2022 ,22,
433–448. [CrossRef]
28. Vamvoudakis-Stefanou, K.J.; Sakellariou, J.S.; Fassois, S.D. Vibration-Based Damage Detection for a Population of Nominally
Identical Structures: Unsupervised Multiple Model (MM) Statistical Time Series Type Methods. Mech. Syst. Signal. Process 2018 ,
111, 149–171. [CrossRef]
29. Sakaris, C.S.; Sakellariou, J.S.; Fassois, S.D. Random-Vibration-Based Damage Detection and Precise Localization on a Lab–Scale
Aircraft Stabilizer Structure via the Generalized Functional Model Based Method. Struct. Health Monit. 2017 ,16, 594–610.
[CrossRef]
30. Aravanis, T.-C.; Sakellariou, J.; Fassois, S. On the Functional Model–Based Method for Vibration-Based Robust Damage Detection:
Versions and Experimental Assessment. Struct. Health Monit. 2020 ,20, 456–474. [CrossRef]
31. Sakaris, C.; Schlanbusch, R.; Nygaard, T.; Sakellariou, J. Statistical Times Series Based Damage Detection in the Fiber Rope
Mooring Lines of the Semi-Submersible OO-STAR Wind Floater. In Proceedings of the 62nd IEEE Conference on Decision and
Control (CDC), Marina Bay Sands, Singapore, 13–15 December 2023.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2024 ,24, 543 30 of 30
32. Bak, C.; Zahle, F.; Bitsche, R.; Kim, T.; Yde, A.; Henriksen, L.C.; Hansen Morten, H.; Blasques, J.P .A.A.; Gaunaa, M.; Natarajan, A.
The DTU 10-MW Reference Wind Turbine ; Technical University of Denmark: Kongens Lyngby, Denmark, 2023.
33. Yu, W.; Müller, K.; Lemmer, F. LIFES50+D4.2: Public Definition of the Two LIFES50+ 10MW Floater Concepts ; University of Stuttgart:
Stuttgart, Germany, 2018.
34. Andersen, H.S.; Eirik, D.; Straume, J.G.; Madsen, M.H.; Laukeland, L.; Landbø, T. Flagship D1.2: Concept Description Report. 2021.
Available online: https://www.flagshiproject.eu/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/D1.2-Concept-Description-Report-Final.pdf
(accessed on 25 August 2023).
35. Borisade, F.; Baht, J.; Matha, D. LIFES50+D5.5: Overall Summary of the Industrialization Process ; Ramboll: Copenhagen, Den-
mark, 2019.
36. Matha, D.; Brons-Illig, C.; Mitzlaff, A.; Scheffler, R. Fabrication and Installation Constraints for Floating Wind and Implications on
Current Infrastructure and Design. Energy Procedia 2017 ,137, 299–306. [CrossRef]
37. Pegalajar-Jurado, A.; Bredmose, H.; Borg, M.; Straume, J.G.; Landbø, T.; Andersen, H.S.; Yu, W.; Müller, K.; Lemmer, F. State-of-
the-Art Model for the LIFES50+ OO-Star Wind Floater Semi 10MW Floating Wind Turbine. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2018 ,1104 , 012024.
[CrossRef]
38. Nygaard, T.A.; De Vaal, J.; Pierella, F.; Oggiano, L.; Stenbro, R. Development, Verification and Validation of 3DFloat; Aero-Servo-
Hydro-Elastic Computations of Offshore Structures. Energy Procedia 2016 ,94, 425–433. [CrossRef]
39. Jonkman, B.J.; Kilcher, L. TurbSim User’s Guide: Version 1.06. 00 ; National Renewable Energy Laboratory: Golden, CO, USA, 2012.
40. Chakrabarti, S. Handbook of Offshore Engineering ; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2005; ISBN 0080523811.
41. Felippa, C.A.; Haugen, B. A Unified Formulation of Small-Strain Corotational Finite Elements: I. Theory. Comput. Methods Appl.
Mech. Eng. 2005 ,194, 2285–2335. [CrossRef]
42. Bendat, J.S.; Piersol, A.G. Random Data: Analysis and Measurement Procedures ; John Wiley & Sons: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2011;
ISBN 1118210824.
43. Sakellariou, J.S.; Fassois, S. A Functional Pooling Framework for the Identification of Systems under Multiple Operating
Conditions. In Proceedings of the 2007 Mediterranean Conference on Control & Automation, Athens, Greece, 27–29 July 2007;
pp. 1–6.
44. Sakellariou, J.S.; Fassois, S.D. Functionally Pooled Models for the Global Identification of Stochastic Systems under Different
Pseudo-Static Operating Conditions. Mech. Syst. Signal. Process 2016 ,72–73 , 785–807. [CrossRef]
45. Hios, J.D.; Fassois, S.D. Stochastic Identification Under Multiple Operating Conditions: Functionally Pooled VARMA Methods.
IFAC Proc. Vol. 2009 ,15, 1626–1631. [CrossRef]
46. Lutkepohl, H. New Introduction to Multiple Time Series Analysis ; Springer: Berlin, Germany, 2005; ISBN 9783540277521.
47. Gómez Gonz ález, A.; Fassois, S.D. A Supervised Vibration-Based Statistical Methodology for Damage Detection under Varying
Environmental Conditions & Its Laboratory Assessment with a Scale Wind Turbine Blade. J. Sound Vib. 2016 ,366, 484–500.
[CrossRef]
48. Mosavi, A.A.; Dickey, D.; Seracino, R.; Rizkalla, S. Identifying Damage Locations under Ambient Vibrations Utilizing Vector
Autoregressive Models and Mahalanobis Distances. Mech. Syst. Signal. Process 2012 ,26, 254–267. [CrossRef]
49. Ljung, G.M.; Box, G.E.P . On a Measure of Lack of Fit in Time Series Models. Biometrika 1978 ,65, 297–303. [CrossRef]
50. Fassois, S.D. Identification, Model-Based Methods. In Encyclopedia of Vibration ; Braun, S., Ed.; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The
Netherlands, 2001; pp. 673–685, ISBN 978-0-12-227085-7.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
