MONITORING MOORING (MONIMOOR) LINES OF FLOATING
STRUCTURES USING DEEP LEARNING-BASED APPROACHES
Smriti Sharma1∗, Vincenzo Nava1,2and Nicolas Gorostidi1,3
1Basque Center for Applied Mathematics Bilbao, Spain
e-mail: ssharma@bcamath.org
2TECNALIA, Basque Research and Technology Alliance (BRTA), Derio, Bizkaia, Bilbao, Spain
3University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), Leioa, Spain
Keywords: Structural health monitoring; Of
fshore Structures; Damage diagnosis; Mooring
lines; Auto regressive Model (AR); Convolutional Neural Network (CNN).Abstract. The renewable energy sector, specifically offshore wind energy, has grown rapidly in
Europe in recent years, owing to the lower energy costs. A typical Floating Offshore Wind Tur-
bine (FOWT) system is comprised of several coupled subsystems that should jointly ensure its
integrity under nominal operating conditions as well as sustainability under extreme conditions
or prolonged usage. From the reliability perspective, one of the most critical subsystems is the
mooring system, which keeps the platform floating in a stable condition. Eventually, monitoring
the mooring lines is important to ensure the safety and serviceability of FOWT throughout its
service life. This article describes a comprehensive model for assisting businesses in planning
real-time monitoring of the FOWT. The proposal combines an Auto-regressive model (AR) with
a Convolutional neural network (CNN) in a near real-time approach for damage detection in
FOWT. The CNN-based approach monitors and subsequently identifies anomalies in the AR
model coefficients of the motion prediction model apriori trained for the FOWT platform under
its undamaged condition.
Accordingly, a model to predict the motion of a semi-submer sible FOWT platform is prepared 
to employ undamaged time history  response (single point displacements and r otations) and the 
optimal AR coefficients a re i dentified un der al l se a st ates an d da mage co nditions. Th e pro-
posed deep learning-based CNN is further employed  to attribute these coefficients t o different 
damage/health states of the platform. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is validated  
through numerical simulations using NREL’s open-source wind turbine simulation tool Open-
FAST. In the numerical model, various scenarios are simulated in an attempt  to replicate real 
damage scenarios
 under varying
 metocean conditions while taking into account the plausible 
failure mechanisms in
 the mooring lines. The strate gy of combining AR and CNN in a  novelty  
detection-based methodology performs
 admirably in damage identification and classification.
158COMPDYN 2023 
9th ECCOMAS Thematic Conference on 
Computational Methods in Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering 
M. Papadrakakis, M. Fragiadakis (eds.) 
Athens, Greece, 12-1 4 June 2023 Available online at www.eccomasproceedia.org 
Eccomas Proceedia COMPDYN (2023) 158-171  
ISSN:2623-3347 © 2023 The Authors. Published by Eccomas Proceedia.
Peer-review under responsibility of the organizing co
mmittee of COMPDYN 2023. 
doi: 10.7712/12012 3.10395.20236
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
1 Introduction
Supported by the strong surge in industries dealing with offshore wind energy, the research
on the performance and sustainability of such structures has taken a significant leap. Maintain-
ing such structures within the required safety and serviceability envelopes and ensuring optimal
maintenance cost has been a major point of concern over the last few decades. In this regard,
industrial applications have always emphasized the cost (installation and maintenance) aspect
of Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) techniques with respect to the benefits achieved and
significant research has been undertaken in this domain.
One of the key reasons structural health monitoring (SHM) approaches are adopted in var-
ious industrial sectors is cost optimization. It has been perceived that adopting data-driven
methodologies to detect structural degradation can greatly lower uncertainty in the offshore oil
and gas industries [1]. Data-driven approaches belong to the family of inverse problems and
have been successfully employed for the solution of structural and mechanical problems. Such
approaches take the basis of the concept of inference of material properties by an analysis of in-
direct measurements. Typical inverse problems could be challenging to solve since a certain set
of measurements could correspond to various sets of material or operating conditions, leading
to confusion in the decision-making process.
Thankfully, with high-level ML-based approaches, complexity with such inverse problems
has been successfully alleviated, leading to superior reliability and predictability for a very wide
band of application areas. The recent surge in the application of such algorithms for damage
detection in bridges [2], onshore wind structures [3], or multiple applications in bio-sciences
corroborate the same. Nonetheless, the research on fault detection in offshore systems and
especially for offshore wind structures, such inverse problems solutions are yet to achieve the
desired maturity. This is due to the fact that the industry is still in its infancy and consequently,
the available data sets are limited. Fortunately, a conceptual framework for such data-driven
approaches [4] for the operation of wind farms has recently been implemented successfully
using the concept of digital twin (instead of the real structure), targeting improvement in future
design and increasing the reliability of the offshore wind platforms.
Researchers are nowadays implementing deep learning algorithms to detect damages in com-
ponents for wind systems [5, 6]. The mooring line is one such subsystem that is perceived to be
very crucial for the overall integrity of the floating offshore wind turbine (FOWT) structures.
Recently, various studies have investigated the economic feasibility of the FOWT systems by
optimizing the design of support structures and mooring systems [7, 8]. Understanding the aero-
hydro-elastic-mooring coupled dynamic response of the FOWT is important to ensure its safety
under extreme wave and/or wind loading. Further studies identified the substantial impact of
damage in the mooring line on the dynamics and stability of the whole system. This has drawn
significant attention from the SHM researchers to monitor the mooring system in the FOWT [9]
to ensure overall safety. Further, the dynamic response of a submerged FOWT with different
configurations has been studied in [5] to assess its impact on the whole systems under normal
and extreme sea states. [10] simulated the offshore code comparison collaboration continuation
(OC4) DeepCWind semi-submersible FOWT model in order to investigate the impact of wind
turbine aerodynamics on the behaviour of floating platforms and mooring systems. Later, [11]’s
study identifies the dependence of the weight of the mooring system for a tri-floater FOWT on
the mooring line configuration.
Clearly, mooring lines have been identified to play a crucial role in ensuring structural stabil-
ity in wind turbines, floating vessels, tension leg platforms (for oil and gas), etc. The damage in
159
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
mooring is further parameterized through aspects like fatigue rate analysis [12], fatigue damage
[13], strength capacity [14], tension and durability [15], failure risk under extended environ-
mental loads [16] etc. Beyond these, there are other failure modes for mooring which also need
emphasis. In this attempt, recent researches focused on a Fuzzy logic-based damage diagnosis
[17, 18, 19].
Contrastingly, an insignificant number of researches have considered data-driven machine
learning or deep learning approaches for monitoring the health of FOWT mooring lines target-
ing early detection of failures. ML, while recently abundantly employed for complex problem
solving, its unique benefits of achieving model-agnostic noise-robust unbiased estimate has not
been exploited to that extent for FOWT health estimation till date. Clearly, this opens up a
research path to develop ML-based algorithm for complex FOWT subsystems. Without any
doubt, the importance of the mooring line on the overall system dynamics is significant, yet
being only a subsystem of an entire FOWT, it can be better monitored while being dealt with
lesser information. As proof of this concept, [20]’s research can be referred to wherein a sim-
ple fully-connected deep neural network detects the possibility of severe bio-fouling failure in
the mooring systems inferring from the displacement and rotation information. This article,
in particular, has introduced the novel approach of analyzing the displacement response em-
ploying deep neural networks in order to monitor FOWT health. With a similar objective, [21]
employed artificial neural networks investigating its localization and classification efficacy for
different damage cases.
Vibration or displacement-based damage diagnosis has been successfully employed for mon-
itoring the health of mechanical systems from different fields: civil, mechanical, aero, naval,
and offshore structures [22, 23, 24]. Such approaches employ model-based/-independent tech-
niques to analyze operational, structural responses in order to locate and isolate the anomalies
that occurred. Usual approaches have been to extract certain damage-sensitive features (DSF)
in the time or modal domain. While typical of such DSFs have been the modal properties, time
domain responses, their damage sensitivity has always remained the source of concern.
As an alternative, [25] presented coefficients of AR models as the suitable DSF that shows
significant sensitivity on the introduction of practical levels of damage. [23] exploited initial
three-order AR model coefficients as DSFs, and t-test has been used for the estimation of dam-
age characteristics. [24] employed Gaussian mixture models for ARM coefficients and further
damage was detected based on the number of models used. Employing ARM coefficients as
DSFs in a data-based estimation environment for damage detection can be undertaken in either
an unsupervised or supervised approach. With an unsupervised approach, novelty detection has
been the most employed approach wherein the novelty on a predefined DSF is attributed to plau-
sible damage scenarios. Statistical methods are further used to exploit the information stored in
the novelty index [26, 27]. Nevertheless, unsupervised learning techniques are limited to dam-
age detection only, while they struggle to localize and quantify the damage. On the contrary,
supervised learning techniques can in actual go beyond detection [28], while demanding rich
archive of input-output data that either has to be sampled from the system or simulated from a
replicative support model. With data not being a problem for many structure types, supervised
algorithm gained popularity over time.
Supervised algorithms can either be used as a classifier or regressor, depending on the net-
work architecture. Both of these needs extensive training that has been typically approached
using random forest, support vector machine (SVM), multi-layer perceptron (MLP), or other
machine learning algorithms. Finally, with regard to damage detection in a structural system,
the problem boils down to training such a network with suitable DSFs extracted from the re-
160
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
sponse against their corresponding damage labels in order to be able to predict the damage label
from the DSFs. The extraction of features through trial and error may however have a subpar
prediction effect since the coefficients of the different orders of the AR model have variable
anti-noise abilities and sensitivities [29]. Also, this can lead to a process that is time-consuming
and labor-intensive. Eventually, choosing suitable DSFs, in this regard, becomes imperative to
ensure promptness and accuracy.
The current study addresses a similar problem, although emphasizing only on the moor-
ing line damage, assuming it to be the only failure-prone zone in a FOWT. The investigation
employs CNN to extract damage-sensitive features from the coefficients of Auto-Regressive
Models (ARM) in an attempt to identify and classify damages. Research in this field has ex-
perienced that, with ML-based approaches, the major source of complexity originates from the
proper selection of damage-sensitive features. While CNN is an excellent approach to classify
any signal, yet the automated selection of damage features is at times cost intensive, especially
when the signal is high-dimensional and/or of poor quality due to substantial noise contamina-
tion, FOWTs being one such example.
This article attempts to alleviate these issues through supplying cleaner and more feature-rich
inputs to CNN. In doing so, AR models of the raw signal are first prepared targeting attenuating
the ill impacts of noise and subsequently extracting ARMCs as the information-rich features
that can be better trained with CNN. Eventually, this approach has to be trained for several
damage cases and metocean conditions and ARMCs against each of the cases are to be labeled
accordingly. Following, the CNN network needs to be trained with an ARMC-label dataset in
order to be able to detect damage cases from ARMCs extracted from any arbitrary signals.
2 Methodology
Generally, structural response under ambient vibration conditions can be observed as a se-
quence of stochastic variables. As per the [30], an AR model can be used to represent such a
process provided the sequence satisfies the condition of stationarity. Eventually, prior to mod-
elling a sequence with AR modelling approach, it is advisable to remove the trend and further
employ normalization to circumvent the ill-effects amplitude. This way, the sequence can be
freed from the influence of the test environment and the load, which can be accomplished as:
x(t) =˜x(t)−µ
σ(1)
with, µandσdenoting the sample mean and sample standard deviations of the raw signal
˜x(t) while x(t) being the normalized data. AR modelling of an arbitrary order pcan further be
employed on this data as:
x(t) =pX
i=1ϕixt−i+et (2)
where, {ϕi}, i={1,2,···, p}) are the parameters of the model and etis the white noise
that needs to be estimated. Following, three processes are typically involved in AR modeling
i.e. establishing the model’s hierarchy, estimating its parameters, and subsequently assessing
the model’s applicability.
In order to decide the model order it is advisable to estimate the partial autocorrelation func-
tion (PACF) of the time series data. This way, the dependence of any entry in the sequence to
its predecessors. Accordingly, the model order is selected till the auto-correlation function is
161
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
found to be substantial. To this cause, the sample auto-correlation function (ACF) rjis typically
estimated for a lag of jas,
rj=Pn
i=j+1x(t)x(t −j)Pn
t=1x(t)2, j= 1,2,··· (3)
Using these ACFS, the PACFs ( ˆφj,k) are estimated as,
ˆφjj=rj−Pj−1
k=1ˆφj−1,krj−k
1−Pj−1
k=1ˆφj−1,krk(4)
with,
ˆφj,k= ˆφj−1,k−ˆφjjˆφj−1,k−1, k= 1,2,···, j−1 (5)
Overall, this process helps in gaining a general understanding of the AR model’s order range
i.e. when likely φjequals ˆφjj. Then, using Equation 3, the coefficients of the AR model
for various model orders. The variance ˆσ2
eof the residual et, can be calculated using sample
variance of the time series, i.e., σ2as:
ˆσ2
e= 
1−pX
i=1ˆϕiri!
σ2(6)
Eventually, this procedure can be repeated for various model orders. Finally, the optimum
model order pcan be suitably chosen taking the basis of Akaike’s information criterion (AIC),
detailed in the following,
AIC(p) = ln 
ˆσ2
e
+ 2(p + 1)/s (7)
with, sbeing the size of the time series data.
Eventually, accuracy in the estimated model is supposed to ensure stationarity and whiteness
in the estimated residual. Among the several available methods for analyzing the residual’s
normality, the quantile-quantile (Q-Q) map is used in this study. By characteristics, the Q-Q
plot tends to be resembling a straight line for stationary white Gaussian noise processes.
Accordingly, the suitable model order is chosen through the process described above. The
model coefficients are subsequently considered as the extracted features, which are then passed
through the CNN-based classifier network. Details of this network are further detailed in the
following.
2.1 Convolutional Neural Networks
Introduced by [31], CNNs are representational structures that can automatically extract high-
dimensional characteristics from the data. This approach combines the jobs of feature extraction
and classification into one learning block. This deep learning technique is basically inspired
by the structure and operational approach of the human visual cortex. Although CNNs are
originally meant to handle 2D and 3D data like images or videos, typically for visual recognition
problems, they have been used extensively in a variety of other applications, such as speech
recognition [32], natural language processing [33], classification of electrocardiogram (ECG)
beats, fault detection in power engines [34], detecting structural damages [35, 36, 37] etc.
Convolutional, sub-sampling, and fully linked layers—also referred to as classification lay-
ers—commonly constitute a typical CNN network. Each input signal is convoluted with a set of
162
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
1
Conv_1,(3x3), 32
INPUT (16x6)Conv_3,(3x3), 8Conv_2,(3x3), 12
Max -pooling(2x2)Max -pooling(2x2)Max -pooling(2x2)Dense, 30
0
1
32
Figure 1: Schematic diagram of the proposed 2D-CNN network
filters or kernels in the convolutional layer in order to fetch the location of the data resembling
the filters. The subsequent sub-sampling layer produces a highlighted data array as a feature
map through the pooling operation. In order to obtain more intense feature maps, several such
convolution and sub-sampling layers are stacked. This yields a compressed feature map, where
the fully-linked classifier associates each of the input sequence layers to the corresponding label.
Typically, ReLU is employed as an activation function to retrieve these features. The network
is schematically given in Figure 1.
3 Building database
The semi-submersible floating system is shown in Figure 2, designed as part of the Deep-
Cwind project (cf. [20]). The same is simulated for this study using NREL’s open-source wind
turbine simulation tool OpenFAST. In the absence of real data, the model hereby is consid-
ered here as the “real” structure from which the training and validation datasets are simulated.
Single point response time history corresponding to all 6dofs (transverse and rotations) are
considered as the input. The simulation is undertaken under several metocean and structural
conditions while taking into account a straightforward mooring system by rebuilding the mod-
ules as specified in [20].
In this study, four main damage types—biofouling, corrosion damage, and bottom segment
(anchorage) failure—have been discovered as being relatively common in the context of failure
modes in the mooring lines. The accumulation of seaweed, bacteria, plants, algae, and animals
along the mooring line causes bio-foiling, which makes the line heavier and increases its damp-
ening capabilities. Due to harsh salty water and aerobic microbe on the surface of the mooring
line, mooring reduces its elasticity due to pitting corrosion. Further, the static friction in the
anchor may be, at times, insufficient to hold the bottom connection in place and to prevent the
entire FOWT from moving to its next equilibrium point. This aspect may cause the bottom
section failure or anchorage failure.
163
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
By describing modifications to the module, OpenFAST recreates these failure modes. The
default value of MoorDyn’s mass per unit length is 113.35 kg/m; a 10% mass (approximately
approx 124.69 kg/m) is increased in this case to replicate major bio-fouling. Due to pitting
corrosion, which normally impacts stiffness, the elasticity of the mooring line is reduced by
10%.e (from 7.536e8 to 6.783e8 N/m2). Similar to this, the bottom node for the mooring is
shifted by ±20m in the model from its original position to simulate anchorage failure.
In the following, the model is simulated under several metocean conditions through the vary-
ing wave and wind loading in the healthy as well as the damaged condition of the FOWT. A
total of 1200 scenarios are simulated in this attempt with 300sample cases for each four health
states (300 ×4). A single point response measurement for all six dofs are sampled for a con-
stant sampling frequency of 40Hz for 1000secs and subsequently, the stabilized response is
employed for training and validation.
1Heave
YawPitch
Sway
SurgeHeave
RollPitch
YawWind
Figure 2: Schematic representation of a semi-submersible FOWT
Figure 3 shows the overview of the proposed approach.
The database for training and validation is subsequently been modelled with AR modelling
approach with a suitable model order chosen followed by the method detailed earlier in this
manuscript. The AR model coefficients corresponding to each sample database are further
associated to a damage case (as labels) already detailed. Next, these extracted ARMCs are
trained against their corresponding labels employing a 2D CNN network.
For choosing model order, the AIC for all model orders ranging from 1 to 30 are calculated
for response samples for all six dofs and the average value is plotted in Figure 4. The AIC is
observed to be stabilizing over increasing model order. Since with increasing model order, the
computation increases exponentially, a practical value for the model order is typically identified
from this graph using the elbow method. In this approach, the elbow could be found around
the model order 16 and accordingly, 16 is selected for the optimal model order. Next, the
adopted model order is checked for its prediction accuracy through the Q-Q plot, wherein the
whiteness and stationarity of the residual are ascertained (cf. Figure 5). For the sake of brevity,
164
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
Building databasePlatform motions
ARMCsValidation setTraining set 
ARMCsCurrent motions
Trained CNN 
classifierTraining CNN
Damage 
identification and 
classificationPreparation Training Prediction
Figure 3: Flowchart of the proposed method
Figure 4: AIC of different orders of AR Model considering all motions
165
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
Figure 5: Normality Test of Residuals (Q-Q Diagram) considering only a surge motion
the figure, however, presents the results corresponding to only surge motion as a representation
of all motions that also demonstrate similar behaviour.
Eventually, all other sample databases are modelled with the AR approach using adopted
model order of 16, yielding 6×16coefficient matrices that are further needed to be classified
against their damage labels using CNN as gray-scale images of resolution 6×16.
4 Network design and training
The following two viewpoints determine how the training and test set are divided. Firstly,
to provide better training outcomes, the amount of samples in each category in the training set
should be as evenly as possible distributed. Secondly, in order to facilitate comparative analysis,
the test set should include samples with various operating scenarios (i.e. different metocean and
health conditions). Out of 1200 samples, 10% of the data from the training set were randomly
chosen to make up the validation set. As a result, 10% samples from each case in the database
are picked to form the test set. Each input is basically a 16×6pixel resolution matrix (cf.
Figure 1) which is then sequentially reduced in dimension through three stacks of convolution
and pooling layers before being classified via a single fully-connected layer. The filters are
assumed to be of the equal dimension of 3×3for all convolution layers. The architecture is
further detailed in the following.
Conv2D(ReLU, 3x3,32)→Maxpooling (2×2)
Conv2D(ReLU, 3x3, 12) →Maxpooling (2×2)
Conv2D(ReLU, 3x3, 8) →Maxpooling (2×2)
Dense (ReLU, 36) →Dropout(0.2)
Dense (Softmax, 4)(8)
In the proposed network, the probability of the four damage cases across the two fully con-
nected layers is determined using the Softmax function and Cross entropy loss (cf. equation 9)
as cost function. The dropout is discovered in the second fully-connected layer and all convo-
lutional layers, as well as the first fully-connected layer, have the ReLU set. A learning rate of
166
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
1×10−3and a batch size of 32is used. The stochastic gradient descent (SGD) optimization
scheme is used in the training process. The network is trained by placing constraints over the
number of epochs(600), threshold loss and the difference between training and validation loss.
LCE=−1
nnX
n=1ylog ˆy+ (1−y) log(1 −ˆy) (9)
5 Results and Conclusion
Figure 6: Accuracy and loss curve for the proposed 2D CNN network
Two aspects are typically considered necessary to quantify the efficiency of a ML network:
accuracy and loss percentage. Accuracy is the percentage of samples that the model correctly
classifies. The mean of the loss function for each training epoch for the mini-batch is referred
to as average loss. The loss and accuracy curve for the proposed approach is shown in Fig 6.
The results show that as the accuracy increases, the average loss attenuates gradually. Also, it
can be observed that the accuracy of training and validation is similar, reaching their final values
quite similarly. Eventually, the results demonstrate that the proposed strategy of combining
ARMC with CNN and the adopted CNN architecture can extract the high-dimensional damage-
sensitive properties of ARMCs and has better generalization capabilities. The confusion matrix
plots are additionally shown in Figure 7.
The construction of DSFs using the conventional AR model-based damage diagnosis meth-
ods is arbitrary, time-consuming, and labor-intensive. Therefore, the CNN’s are used to swiftly
and automatically extract the features from ARMCs in light of these drawbacks. Consequently,
an AR model and CNN-based structural damage detection and classification method are sug-
gested. The proposed network further takes benefit of the spatio-temporal information embed-
ded within the response array recorded simultaneously from several sensors, which introduces
the correlation information between different responses for damage detection purposes.
When predicting mild damage failure modes in turbine mooring lines, the constructed net-
work achieves 100% accuracy. As anticipated, the proposed technique has greater robustness
167
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
Figure 7: Confusion matrix of the proposed AR with CNN method
and efficiency. As only the motions of the platform would be required to remotely estimate
the future of a mooring system’s health status, this technique could drastically reduce O&M
costs, increasing the overall profitability. Later in this research, the technique will further be
expanded to any FOWT while taking different structural components into consideration in order
to identify and categorize structural damage for more complex circumstances. The several fail-
ure modes that may occur simultaneously must also be considered when defining the damage
type using CNN-based techniques.
6 Acknowledgements
This study is funded by the Spanish Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transforma-
tion under the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan in the call of R&D Missions in
the Artificial Intelligence 2021 Programme, in the framework of IA4TES project (Artificial
Intelligence for Sustainable Energy Transition) with reference number MIA.2021.M04.008.
The authors also would like to acknowledge the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation
projects with references TED2021-132783B-I00 and PID2019-108111RB-I00 (FEDER/AEI);
the “BCAM Severo Ochoa” accreditation of excellence CEX2021-001142-S / MICIN / AEI /
10.13039/501100011033; and the Basque Government through the BERC 2022-2025 program.
REFERENCES
[1] U. T. Tygesen, M. S. Jepsen, J. Vestermark, N. Dollerup, and A. Pedersen, “The true digital
twin concept for fatigue re-assessment of marine structures,” in International Conference
on Offshore Mechanics and Arctic Engineering, vol. 51203, p. V001T01A021, American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, 2018.
[2] S. Sharma and S. Sen, “Bridge damage detection in presence of varying temperature us-
ing two-step neural network approach,” Journal of Bridge Engineering, vol. 26, no. 6,
p. 04021027, 2021.
168
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
[3] M. Schlechtingen and I. F. Santos, “Comparative analysis of neural network and regres-
sion based condition monitoring approaches for wind turbine fault detection,” Mechanical
systems and signal processing, vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 1849–1875, 2011.
[4] D. Augustyn, U. T. Tygesen, M. D. Ulriksen, and J. D. Sørensen, “Data-driven design
and operation of offshore wind structures,” in The 29th International Ocean and Polar
Engineering Conference, OnePetro, 2019.
[5] Y . Li, C. Le, H. Ding, P. Zhang, and J. Zhang, “Dynamic response for a submerged floating
offshore wind turbine with different mooring configurations,” Journal of Marine Science
and Engineering, vol. 7, no. 4, p. 115, 2019.
[6] J. Rafiee, F. Arvani, A. Harifi, and M. Sadeghi, “Intelligent condition monitoring of a gear-
box using artificial neural network,” Mechanical systems and signal processing, vol. 21,
no. 4, pp. 1746–1754, 2007.
[7] A. J. Coulling, A. J. Goupee, A. N. Robertson, J. M. Jonkman, and H. J. Dagher, “Vali-
dation of a fast semi-submersible floating wind turbine numerical model with deepcwind
test data,” Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy, vol. 5, no. 2, p. 023116, 2013.
[8] F. Duan, Z. Hu, and J. Niedzwecki, “Model test investigation of a spar floating wind
turbine,” Marine Structures, vol. 49, pp. 76–96, 2016.
[9] Y . Bae, M. Kim, and H. Kim, “Performance changes of a floating offshore wind turbine
with broken mooring line,” Renewable Energy, vol. 101, pp. 364–375, 2017.
[10] Y . Liu, Q. Xiao, A. Incecik, C. Peyrard, and D. Wan, “Establishing a fully coupled cfd
analysis tool for floating offshore wind turbines,” Renewable Energy, vol. 112, pp. 280–
301, 2017.
[11] G. Benassai, A. Campanile, V . Piscopo, and A. Scamardella, “Ultimate and accidental
limit state design for mooring systems of floating offshore wind turbines,” Ocean Engi-
neering, vol. 92, pp. 64–74, 2014.
[12] K.-t. Ma, H. Shu, P. Smedley, D. L’Hostis, and A. Duggal, “A historical review on integrity
issues of permanent mooring systems,” in Offshore technology conference, OnePetro,
2013.
[13] P. R. Thies, L. Johanning, V . Harnois, H. C. Smith, and D. N. Parish, “Mooring line
fatigue damage evaluation for floating marine energy converters: Field measurements and
prediction,” Renewable Energy, vol. 63, pp. 133–144, 2014.
[14] W. Brindley and A. P. Comley, “North sea mooring systems: how reliable are they?,”
inInternational Conference on Offshore Mechanics and Arctic Engineering, vol. 45370,
p. V01AT01A025, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 2014.
[15] S. Banfield, N. Casey, and R. Nataraja, “Durability of polyester deepwater mooring rope,”
inOffshore technology conference, OnePetro, 2005.
[16] C.-C. Huang and J.-Y . Pan, “Mooring line fatigue: A risk analysis for an spm cage system,”
Aquacultural engineering, vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 8–16, 2010.
169
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
[17] A. Mentes and I. H. Helvacioglu, “An application of fuzzy fault tree analysis for spread
mooring systems,” Ocean Engineering, vol. 38, no. 2-3, pp. 285–294, 2011.
[18] V . Jahangiri, H. Mirab, R. Fathi, and M. M. Ettefagh, “Tlp structural health monitoring
based on vibration signal of energy harvesting system,” Latin American Journal of Solids
and Structures, vol. 13, pp. 897–915, 2016.
[19] A. Jamalkia, M. M. Ettefagh, and A. Mojtahedi, “Damage detection of tlp and spar float-
ing wind turbine using dynamic response of the structure,” Ocean Engineering, vol. 125,
pp. 191–202, 2016.
[20] N. Gorostidi, V . Nava, A. Aristondo, and D. Pardo, “Predictive maintenance of floating
offshore wind turbine mooring lines using deep neural networks,” in Journal of Physics:
Conference Series, vol. 2257, p. 012008, IOP Publishing, 2022.
[21] H. R. Aqdam, M. M. Ettefagh, and R. Hassannejad, “Health monitoring of mooring
lines in floating structures using artificial neural networks,” Ocean Engineering, vol. 164,
pp. 284–297, 2018.
[22] S. Hoell and P. Omenzetter, “Optimal selection of autoregressive model coefficients for
early damage detectability with an application to wind turbine blades,” Mechanical Sys-
tems and Signal Processing, vol. 70, pp. 557–577, 2016.
[23] K. K. Nair, A. S. Kiremidjian, and K. H. Law, “Time series-based damage detection and
localization algorithm with application to the asce benchmark structure,” Journal of Sound
and Vibration, vol. 291, no. 1-2, pp. 349–368, 2006.
[24] A. S. Kiremidjian, G. Kiremidjian, and P. Sarabandi, “A wireless structural monitoring
system with embedded damage algorithms and decision support system,” Structure and
Infrastructure Engineering, vol. 7, no. 12, pp. 881–894, 2011.
[25] H. Kosorus, M. H ¨ollrigl-Binder, H. Allmer, and J. K ¨ung, “On the identification of frequen-
cies and damping ratios for structural health monitoring using autoregressive models,” in
2012 23rd International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications, pp. 23–
27, IEEE, 2012.
[26] R. Yao and S. N. Pakzad, “Autoregressive statistical pattern recognition algorithms for
damage detection in civil structures,” Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, vol. 31,
pp. 355–368, 2012.
[27] S. Roy and T. K. Das, “Plant mediated green synthesis of silver nanoparticles-a,” Int. J.
Plant Biol. Res, vol. 3, pp. 1044–1055, 2015.
[28] E. Cross, K. Worden, and C. Farrar, “Structural health monitoring for civil infrastructure,”
inHealth Assessment of Engineered Structures: Bridges, Buildings and Other Infrastruc-
tures, pp. 1–31, World Scientific, 2013.
[29] A. Datteo, G. Busca, G. Quattromani, and A. Cigada, “On the use of ar models for shm: a
global sensitivity and uncertainty analysis framework,” Reliability Engineering & System
Safety, vol. 170, pp. 99–115, 2018.
170
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Smriti Sharma, Vincenzo Nava and Nicolas Gorostidi
[30] Q. Tang, J. Zhou, J. Xin, S. Zhao, and Y . Zhou, “Autoregressive model-based structural
damage identification and localization using convolutional neural networks,” KSCE Jour-
nal of Civil Engineering, vol. 24, no. 7, pp. 2173–2185, 2020.
[31] Y . LeCun, B. E. Boser, J. S. Denker, D. Henderson, R. E. Howard, W. E. Hubbard, and
L. D. Jackel, “Handwritten digit recognition with a back-propagation network,” in Ad-
vances in neural information processing systems, pp. 396–404, 1990.
[32] O. Abdel-Hamid, A.-r. Mohamed, H. Jiang, and G. Penn, “Applying convolutional neural
networks concepts to hybrid nn-hmm model for speech recognition,” in 2012 IEEE inter-
national conference on Acoustics, speech and signal processing (ICASSP), pp. 4277–4280,
IEEE, 2012.
[33] Y . Kim, “Convolutional neural networks for sentence classification,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1408.5882, 2014.
[34] T. Ince, S. Kiranyaz, L. Eren, M. Askar, and M. Gabbouj, “Real-time motor fault detec-
tion by 1-d convolutional neural networks,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics,
vol. 63, no. 11, pp. 7067–7075, 2016.
[35] O. Abdeljaber, O. Avci, M. S. Kiranyaz, B. Boashash, H. Sodano, and D. J. Inman, “1-d
cnns for structural damage detection: verification on a structural health monitoring bench-
mark data,” Neurocomputing, vol. 275, pp. 1308–1317, 2018.
[36] O. Avci, O. Abdeljaber, S. Kiranyaz, and D. Inman, “Structural damage detection in real
time: implementation of 1d convolutional neural networks for shm applications,” in Struc-
tural Health Monitoring & Damage Detection, Volume 7, pp. 49–54, Springer, 2017.
[37] S. Sharma and S. Sen, “One-dimensional convolutional neural network-based damage de-
tection in structural joints,” Journal of Civil Structural Health Monitoring, vol. 10, no. 5,
pp. 1057–1072, 2020.
171
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
