Citation: Yang, Y.; Liang, F.; Zhu, Q.;
Zhang, H. An Overview on Structural
Health Monitoring and Fault
Diagnosis of Offshore Wind Turbine
Support Structures. J. Mar. Sci. Eng.
2024 ,12, 377. https://doi.org/
10.3390/jmse12030377
Academic Editors: Jo ão Miguel Dias,
Carlos Guedes Soares, Markes
E. Johnson, Rafael J. Bergillos,
Naomasa Oshiro, Alvise Benetazzo
and Kamal Djidjeli
Received: 10 January 2024
Revised: 5 February 2024
Accepted: 20 February 2024
Published: 22 February 2024
Copyright: ©2024 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
Journal of
Marine Science 
and Engineering
Review
An Overview on Structural Health Monitoring and Fault
Diagnosis of Offshore Wind T urbine Support Structures
Yang Yang1
, Fayun Liang1,*
, Qingxin Zhu2and Hao Zhang3
1Department of Geotechnical Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, China;
yangyang2022@tongji.edu.cn
2School of Environment and Architecture, University of Shanghai for Science and Technology,
Shanghai 200093, China; zhuqingxin@usst.edu.cn
3College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Donghua University, Shanghai 201620, China;
hzhang@dhu.edu.cn
*Correspondence: fyliang@tongji.edu.cn
Abstract: The service environment of offshore wind turbine (OWT) support structures is harsh, and it
is extremely difficult to replace these structures during their operational lifespan, making their failure
a catastrophic event. The structural health monitoring (SHM) of OWT support structures is a crucial
aspect of operational maintenance for OWT support structures, aiming to mitigate significant finan-
cial losses. This paper systematically summarizes the current monitoring methods and technologies
for OWT support structures, including towers and foundations. Through the review of monitoring
content and the evolution of monitoring techniques for supporting structures, it delves deeper into
the challenges faced by wind turbine monitoring and highlights potential avenues for future devel-
opment. Then, the current damage identification techniques for OWT towers and foundations are
analyzed, exploring various methods including model-based, vibration-based, artificial intelligence
and hybrid fault diagnosis methods. The article also examines the advantages and disadvantages of
each approach and outlines potential future directions for research and development in this field.
Furthermore, it delves into the current damage identification techniques for OWT towers and foun-
dations, discussing prevalent challenges and future directions in this domain. This status review can
provide reference and guidance for the monitoring design of OWT support structures, and provide
support for the fault diagnosis of OWT support structures.
Keywords: structural health monitoring; fault diagnosis; offshore wind turbine; support structures;
tower; foundation
1. Introduction
Wind energy is a clean and renewable energy source with vast reserves. The offshore
wind power generation industry is experiencing exponential growth. At the end of 2022, the
global installed capacity of offshore wind power has reached an impressive 64.3 GW. The
support structure of OWTs (tower and foundation) must withstand loads transferred from
the upper nacelle and blades, along with extreme and fatiguing environmental forces. It is,
therefore, imperative to conduct comprehensive health monitoring and damage diagnosis
for the supporting structures of OWT. This provides vital technical support for ensuring
the safe operation and maintenance of offshore wind power projects, ultimately promoting
the long-term sustainability and viability of this renewable energy source.
The monitoring of OWTs encompasses several key components, including nacelles,
blades, towers, and foundations. While nacelles and blades often receive the most at-
tention [ 1–4], OWT supporting structures are essential but often overlooked. Given the
significant economic losses caused by OWT damage, operation and maintenance account
for 30% of the total life cycle cost. Reasonable OWT monitoring can save operation and
maintenance expenses [ 5,6]. However, the monitoring of OWT support structures does not
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377. https://doi.org/10.3390/jmse12030377 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jmse
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 2 of 17
cover all OWTs, and the number of OWTs being monitored is generally about 10% of the
total number of OWTs in an entire wind farm. The potential damage to these supporting
structures during operation and maintenance can range from changes in modal parameters
to soil strength degradation, erosion, fatigue, cracks, and corrosion [ 7]. The complex ser-
vice environment is a primary factor in the degradation of these structures, with fatigue
accounting for 80% of structural damage [ 8,9].The first offshore wind farm in China began
generating electricity in 2010 and has a service life of approximately 25 years. As the wind
farms approach the end of their service life, it is essential to consider end-of-service options.
For OWTs adopting re-operation plans (which refers to the process of repairing, modifying
or upgrading wind turbines that have been stopped or abandoned, so that they can resume
operation and continue to provide services to the power system) the performance evaluation
of their foundations relies heavily on monitoring data. In summary , the monitoring of OWT
supporting structures is crucial for ensuring safe operation and maintenance. The assessment
of an OWT service status relies heavily on these monitoring results, making it paramount for
wind farm operators to prioritize regular monitoring and damage diagnosis.
Structural health monitoring (SHM) techniques produce abundant data captured from
in situ structures, e.g., structural responses and environmental status, offering the potential
for fault detection and condition assessment [ 10,11]. An SHM system produces abundant
data captured from the in situ structure; these recorded data are transferred to servers and
stored. Then, data analysis methods are conducted to assess structural conditions or detect
anomalous changes. Note that more sensors obtain more detailed structural information;
however, a large number of sensors would increase the system budget and bring about
data redundancy [ 12]. Thus, considerable efforts have been devoted to optimizing sensor
layouts. In addition, methods for assessing structural condition or detecting anomalous
changes are also continuously reviewed by civil engineers. Accordingly, an SHM system
provides a reliable reference for structural maintenance, as shown in Figure 1, and this
article mainly summarizes data acquisition and fault diagnosis in the condition assessment
of structural health monitoring. Initially, it delves into the monitoring content of tower
and foundation structures within the supporting structure, emphasizing the significance of
employing diverse monitoring methods for specific purposes. This section can serve as a
practical guide for professionals involved in OWT monitoring. Subsequently, the article
examines the evolving fault diagnosis methods for current OWT supporting structures. The
increasing popularity of offshore wind power and the advancement of artificial intelligence
have significantly improved fault diagnosis, making it more intelligent and efficient. In
conclusion, this article wraps up by discussing and projecting the current status of industry
development. It offers valuable insights for the offshore wind power monitoring industry,
providing technical support for offshore wind farm operation and maintenance.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 
2024
,
 
12
, x FOR PEER 
REVIEW
 
2
 
of 
17
 
 
 
30% of the total life cycle cost. Reasonable OWT monitoring can save operation and 
maintenance expenses [5
,
6]. However, the monitoring of OWT support structures does 
not cover all OWTs, and the number of OWTs being monitored is generally about 10% of 
the total number of OWTs in 
an 
entire wind farm. The potential damage to these support-
ing structures during operation and maintenance can range from changes in modal pa-
rameters to soil strength degradation, erosion, fatigue, cracks, and corrosion [7]. The com-
pl
ex service environment is a primary factor in the degradation of these structures, with 
fatigue accounting for 80% of structural damage [8
,
9]. The ﬁrst oﬀshore wind farm in 
China began generating electricity in 2010 and has a service life of approximately 25 years. 
As the wind farms approach the end of their service life, it is essential to consider end
-
of
-
service options. For OWTs adopting
 
re
-
operation plans 
(
which refers to the process of re-
pairing, modifying or upgrading wind turbines that have been st
opped or abandoned, so 
that they can resume operation and continue to provide services to the power system
)
 
the 
performance evaluation of their foundations relies heavily on monitoring data. In sum-
mary, the monitoring of OWT supporting structures is crucial for ensuring safe operation 
and maintenance. The assessment of an OWT service status relies heavily on th
ese moni-
toring results, making it paramount for wind farm operators to prioritize regular moni-
toring and damage diagnosis.
 
Structural health monitoring 
(
SHM
)
 
techniques produce abundant data captured 
from 
in situ
 
structures, e.g., structural responses and environmental status, oﬀering the 
potential for fault detection and condition assessment [10
,
11]. 
An 
SHM system produce
s
 
abundant data captured from
 
the
 
in situ
 
structure
;
 
these recorded data are transferred to 
servers and stored. Then, data analysis methods are conducted to assess structural condi-
tions or detect anomalous changes. Note that more sensors obtain more detailed 
structural 
information
;
 
h
owever, a large number of sensors would increase the system budget and 
bring about data redundancy [12]. Thus, considerable eﬀorts have been devoted to opti-
mizing sensor layouts. In addition, methods for assessing structural condition or detecting 
anomalo
us changes are also continuous
ly
 
reviewed 
by civil engineer
s
. Accordingly, 
an 
SHM system provides 
a 
reliable reference for structural maintenance, as shown in Figure 
1, and this article mainly summarizes data acquisition and fault 
diagnosis in
 
the
 
condition 
assessment of structural health monitoring. Initially, it delves into the monitoring content 
of tower and foundation structures within the supporting structure, emphasizing the sig-
niﬁcance of employing diverse monitoring methods for speciﬁc pu
rposes. This section can 
serve as a practical guide for professionals involved in OWT monitoring. Subsequently, 
the article examines the evolving fault diagnosis methods for current OWT supporting 
structures. The increasing popularity of oﬀshore wind powe
r and the advancement of ar-
tiﬁcial intelligence have signiﬁcantly improved fault diagnosis, making it more intelligent 
and eﬃcient. In conclusion, this article wraps up by discussing and projecting the current 
status of industry development. It oﬀers 
valuable insights for the oﬀshore wind power 
monitoring industry, providing technical support for oﬀshore wind farm operation and 
maintenance.
 
Maintenance 
D
ata transmission
D
ata storage

 
S
election of sensors

 
N
umber of sensors

 
L
ocalization of 
sensors
Data acquisition
Data processing

 
D
ata fusion

 
I
ndicators of 
feature change 
Condition assessment

 
Fault diagnosis

 
Structural prognosis
F
oundation
Tower
 
Figure 1. 
Diagram of SHM of OWT support structure
s
.
 
Figure 1. Diagram of SHM of OWT support structures.
2. Strategies and Challenges in SHM of OWT Support Structures
The service environment of the offshore wind turbine (OWT) support structures is
harsh, as they must withstand inertial forces transmitted from the nacelle and blades,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 3 of 17
wind loads, waves, currents, and soil–structural interactions, as well as potential seismic
events. SHM can detect the service status of the OWT supporting structures, enabling
intervention to avoid the failure of the OWT supporting structure affecting the operation of
the wind farm. The SHM techniques of OWT includes acoustic inspection, thermal imaging
inspection, visual inspection, strain monitoring, and fatigue and modal characteristics
inspection [ 6]. The OWT with monopile foundation fault types are shown as an example in
Figure 2 [ 13]. The left side of Figure 2 illustrates the loads that may be encountered through-
out the service life of OWTs, while the right side depicts the various types of potential
damages to the support structure, which may include changes in modal parameters, soil
strength degradation, scouring, and more. For an OWT in service, the monitoring fatigue
types and technique of the tower and foundations will be illustrated in the following part.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 
2024
,
 
12
, x FOR PEER 
REVIEW
 
3
 
of 
17
 
 
 
2. 
Strategies and Challenges in SHM of OWT Support Structures
 
The service environment of the oﬀshore wind turbine (OWT) support structures is 
harsh, as they must withstand inertial forces transmi ed from the nacelle and blades, 
wind loads, waves, currents,
 
and
 
soil
–
structural interactions, as well as potential seismic 
events. SHM can detect the service status of the OWT supporting structures, enabling in-
tervention to avoid
 
the failure of the OWT supporting structure aﬀecting the operation of 
the wind farm. The SHM techniques of OWT includes acoustic inspection, the
rmal imag-
ing inspection, visual inspection, strain monitoring,
 
and
 
fatigue and modal characteristics 
inspection [6]. The OWT with monopile foundation fault types are shown as an example 
in Figure 2 [13]. The left side of Figure 2 illustrates the loads that may be encountered 
throughout the service life of OWTs, while the
 
right side depicts the various types of po-
tential damages to the support structure, which may include changes in modal parame-
ters, soil strength degradation, scouring, and more.
 
For 
an 
OWT 
in service
,
 
the monitoring 
fatigue types and technique of
 
the
 
tower and foundations will be illustrated in the follow-
ing part.
 
Monopile
Tower
Nacelle
Support
structure
Inertial force
Current force
Soil
-
pile 
interaction
……
Earthquake
Wind force
Wave force
Fatigue
Cracks
Corrosion
……
Modal parameters changes
Soil strength degradation
Scouring
Loads
Damages
 
Figure 2. 
Fault types of OWT with monopile foundation.
 
2.1. 
SHM Strategies of OWT Towers
 
The tower of OWTs serves as the connection between the nacelle and the foundation. 
As the length of the OWT blades increase, the tower height also escalates. However, in 
complex operation environments, there have been instances of tower collapse, leading t
o 
signiﬁcant economic losses
 
[14
,
15]. Consequently, it is imperative to implement SHM of 
OWT towers to assess their service condition and minimize the occurrence of OWT acci-
dents. The monitoring system of tower 
is 
supposed to include the following parts
:
 
1.
 
Vibration
 
Generally, damage (e.g., crack, bolt loosening, and corrosion) decrease structural 
stiﬀness. Accordingly, the loss of stiﬀness leads to the change 
in 
structural dynamic char-
acteristics (e.g., frequency, damping ratio and mode shapes) [16]. Thus, operational modal 
analysis (OMA) has been employed for damage detection and condition assessment
.
 
H
erein, modal parameters are compared between the intact and damaged conditions 
[17
,
18]. In particular, natural frequency always decreases with damaged conditions. To
 
assess the operational status of the tower, accelerometers are equipped to capture vibra-
tion data, which are utilized to identify the modal parameters. Zhou et al. positioned ﬁve 
wireless accelerometers at varying heights on the tower
 
[19]. By examining vibration sig-
nals under diﬀerent excitations, they conducted modal analysis on
 
an
 
OWT with 
a 
mono-
Figure 2. Fault types of OWT with monopile foundation.
2.1. SHM Strategies of OWT Towers
The tower of OWTs serves as the connection between the nacelle and the foundation.
As the length of the OWT blades increase, the tower height also escalates. However, in
complex operation environments, there have been instances of tower collapse, leading
to significant economic losses [ 14,15]. Consequently, it is imperative to implement SHM
of OWT towers to assess their service condition and minimize the occurrence of OWT
accidents. The monitoring system of tower is supposed to include the following parts:
1. Vibration
Generally, damage (e.g., crack, bolt loosening, and corrosion) decrease structural
stiffness. Accordingly, the loss of stiffness leads to the change in structural dynamic
characteristics (e.g., frequency, damping ratio and mode shapes) [ 16]. Thus, operational
modal analysis (OMA) has been employed for damage detection and condition assessment.
Herein, modal parameters are compared between the intact and damaged conditions [ 17,18].
In particular, natural frequency always decreases with damaged conditions. To assess the
operational status of the tower, accelerometers are equipped to capture vibration data, which
are utilized to identify the modal parameters. Zhou et al. positioned five wireless accelerom-
eters at varying heights on the tower [ 19]. By examining vibration signals under different
excitations, they conducted modal analysis on an OWT with a monopile foundation. The
research results indicate that modal parameters derived from controlled ship impacts are more
accurate compared to those obtained from data collected under environmental loads.
2. Cracks
During the service period of OWTs, the tower is subjected to repeated cyclic loads;
studies have found that 80 percent of structural damages are caused by fatigue [ 8,9].
Monitoring crack depth and length at critical locations such as the tower and weld joints
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 4 of 17
is crucial for evaluating tower integrity. Gansel et al. evaluated the performance of DY
butt welds under tensile loads using five eddy current differential sensors [ 20]. The data
obtained from crack monitoring can serve as a predictive indicator for OWT service life.
Strain sensors are utilized in critical parts to detect cracks [ 21]. Cicero et al. (2009) delved
into how welding defects in the tower influence its fitness throughout its service life,
revealing that once the tower exceeds the maximum acceptable lack of penetration defects,
it necessitates repair to uphold its structural integrity [ 22]. Capaldo et al. (2020) examined
how cracks impact the capacity of a tower to withstand buckling, analyzing the effects of
factors like crack location and length on its strength. Their findings revealed that cracks in
the compression zone of the tower have a more significant impact compared to those in
the tension zone. When the crack reaches a size of 30–40 cm, the critical load is reduced
by approximately 8% [ 23]. Additionally, visual inspection [ 24], either manual or assisted
by AI, is a widely used method for crack detection. Traditional methods rely heavily on
inspector expertise, while AI-assisted approaches leverage computer vision technologies
such as digital cameras to enhance crack identification accuracy. However, it should be
noted that visual inspection is limited to surface crack detection.
3. Tower bending moment
The measurement of tower bending moment is typically achieved through strain
gauges, often located on the inner wall of the tower. However, it is noteworthy that
only a subset of OWTs is equipped with strain gauges for monitoring tower bending
moments. Santos et al. (2022) adopted acceleration data, supervisory control and data
acquisition (SCADA) to estimate the tower fore–aft bending moment damage equivalent
loads, utilizing artificial neural networks [ 25]. Jay et al. (2016) compared the yield strength
of traditionally welded tower sections with those spirally welded and found that the former
had a lower yield strength, confirming that the method of connection between different
tower sections significantly affects the bending capacity of towers [ 26]. Additionally, as thin
steel cylindrical shells, the bending properties of towers are greatly influenced by strain-
hardening models, which have a significant impact on curvature and bending capacity [ 27].
Fajuyitan et al. (2018) conducted research on the imperfection sensitivity of cylindrical shells
under uniform bending, examining the effects of cylinder length, end support conditions,
forms, and amplitudes of geometric imperfections. They also utilized a novel automation
strategy for analysis, but the research was primarily numerical simulation and further
analysis with field measurements is required [ 28]. The bending capacity and buckling
behavior of towers are closely related to their diameter–thickness ratios. OWTs towers
typically have a diameter–thickness ratio exceeding 150, and as this ratio increases, local
buckling can affect the bending properties of tubular cross-sections [ 29]. The continuous
monitoring of bending capacity can help detect potential safety hazards in towers and take
measures to ensure the long-term stable operation of OWTs.
4. Tower flange connection bolts inspection
OWTs are constantly exposed to cyclic loads, and if a bolt or flange bolt loosens and
falls off, it can have a significant impact on the stress of other bolts [ 30]. It is difficult to man-
ually identify bolt loosening, and it is one of the main reasons for structural collapse [ 31,32].
Liang et al. (2015) proposed an intelligent bolted joint failure monitoring approach to
achieve the real-time monitoring of bolt loosening. This method utilizes monitoring data
and combines the developed decision fusion system with Lamb wave propagation. How-
ever, more complex bolt structures are needed to verify the reliability of this method [ 33].
Ji et al. (2023) analyzed the impact of initial flatness divergence, indicating that tower-sided
gapping and flange-sided gapping conditions result in more severe fatigue damage to
bolts compared to parallel gapping [ 34]. Cheng et al. (2023) studied C1 wedge connections
in towers and found that the contact surface friction coefficient and bolt pretension level
significantly affect the local deformation capacity and stress range of the connection [ 35].
Li et al. (2023) proposed a damage monitoring method capable of identifying the loosening
location of flange bolts. This method is primarily based on dynamic strain responses, but
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 5 of 17
the work conditions studied had a limited number of bolts, and further research is needed
to evaluate its applicability to OWTs with hundreds of bolts [ 36]. Other studies have exam-
ined the impact of flange bolt loosening on turbine responses, showing that bolt loosening
has little effect on the first-order frequency, damping ratio, and mode shape of the turbine.
However, it has a significant impact on the absolute value of the phase difference between
the upper and lower plates. When the bolt loosening rate is 6%, there is a noticeable
increase in numerical values [ 37]. Due to the large number of flange connection bolts in
tower sections, some studies have begun to use artificial intelligence methods [ 38,39] to
solve the problem of bolt stress distribution prediction. Nguyen et al. (2016) proposed an
image processing technique for identifying bolt loosening. The main principle is to identify
the rotation angle of the nut from images. This method was primarily validated in indoor
tests and lacks practical engineering applications and verification [ 40]. Dai et al. (2023)
used machine learning to predict the stress distribution of Circular Hollow Section Tube of
flexible high-neck flange joints [41].
5. Tower weld seam monitoring
Due to the limitations of the manufacturing process, traditional OWT towers usually
contain circumferential welds perpendicular to the tower height and longitudinal welds
parallel to the tower height. The quality of tower welds has an important impact on
the overall strength and service life of the tower [ 42]. The commonly used three weld
monitoring methods include ultrasonic phased array detection, TOFD detection and the
magnetic memory method. Each of the three methods has its advantages and disadvantages.
Ultrasonic phased array detection is more suitable for structures that are difficult to access,
has limitations in repeatability accuracy, and finds is difficult to calculate the defects
quantitatively; TOFD detection can achieve the quantified calculation of flaws, and has
blind spots in surface detection; the magnetic memory method is cost-effective, yet the
signal it generates is relatively feeble and susceptible to various influencing factors [ 43].
Farhan et al. (2022) studied the optimal monitoring time and repair strategy for OWT weld
from the early stage of its service life. It was found that the inspection should be carried out
around the midpoint of the service life of the welding joint, and the fatigue crack should
be repaired at the same time [ 44]. With the continuous development of technology, the
monitoring and detection methods for tower weld seams are also continuously improving
and being perfected. Monitoring tower weld seams can enable the timely discovery of
problems such as fatigue, damage, or aging, and avoid tower safety accidents.
6. Bolt inspection of tower and foundation connection
The bolts connecting the tower and foundation, during their service, are constantly
subjected to cyclic loads transmitted from the upper tower, which makes them prone to
fatigue failure. Weijtjens et al. (2021) used the monitoring data of bolts in the monopile
to the transition piece bolted flange connection and strain gauges of wind turbines to
study the load transfer behavior and predict the fatigue life of the bolts. By comparing
the field monitoring data with finite element analysis results, they found that the load
transfer coefficients obtained from field monitoring data were larger than those from finite
element simulations. Therefore, when using finite element simulations, consideration
should be given to the flange tilt [ 45]. The piezoelectric impedance method can be used to
monitor flange bolt looseness. This method utilizes the piezoelectric effect and is sensitive
to structural parameters, but it is also easily affected by environmental factors [ 46,47].
In addition, due to the harsh service environment, the bolts connecting the tower and
foundation also need to be monitored for bolt corrosion and stress. Damaged or ineffective
bolts should be replaced in a timely manner to detect and address potential safety hazards.
2.2. SHM Strategies of OWT Foundations
Since the first offshore wind farm project, the Vindeby project in Denmark in 1991,
the offshore wind power industry has developed rapidly, and OWTs have also developed
towards large-scale and deep-sea areas. The types of OWT foundations include monopile,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 6 of 17
gravity-based, jacket, tripod, tripole, spar type, tension-legged and semi-submersible
foundations [ 8]. The service life of OWTs is generally 20–25 years. To ensure the safety of
OWT foundations during the service period, health monitoring is required. The current
types and methods of monitoring are listed below.
1. Vibration
Abnormal vibration of the foundation poses a significant threat to the operation of the
OWT, and vibration of the foundation should be monitored [ 48]. Currently, a monopile
foundation generally has equipped accelerometers at the top of the monopile to monitor the
vibration of the foundation during service period. It is well known that OWTs have strict
frequency requirements for the foundation, and to avoid resonance, the natural frequency
of the foundation, one and three times of the blade rotation frequency, must be avoided.
The accelerometers deployed on the OWT foundation can obtain the vibration condition
of the foundation and provide monitoring data for the analysis of the frequency of the
foundation. In addition, for the floating OWT foundation, the monitoring of the OWT
vibration is also particularly important [49,50].
2. Displacement
For a fixed-base foundation, the displacement monitoring includes settlement and
inclination. Under environmental loads, self-weight loads, and long-term vibration during
the service life of an OWT, the foundation soil consolidates the settlement and inclination
is of great importance to ensure the safety of OWTs. In addition, for floating OWTs, the
rotation of foundation must be monitored during service life [50].
3. Axial forces and bending moments
For monopile foundations, the axial forces and bending moment of the monopile
is monitored by strain gauges placed at the bottom of the tower and at the top of the
monopile [ 51,52]. The weighted average recorded at the same height represents the axial
strain; the strain difference of opposite sides at the same height produces the bending
moments. For composite bucket foundations, in addition to monitoring the bending
moment at the top of the foundation, reinforcement gauges and concrete strain gauges
are used to monitor different parts of the foundation, including the transition section,
main beams, and secondary beams [ 53]. For jacket foundations, strain gauges are used to
measure different jacket members [ 54,55].The marine environment has high requirements for
strain gauges, necessitating excellent resistance to corrosion, water, and shock, ensuring long-
term stable operation [56]. Furthermore, due to the confidentiality requirements surrounding
OWT data, there have been limited published studies on on-site axial and bending moment
monitoring. Nevertheless, as monitoring technology continues to advance, there will be a
gradual increase in relevant research aimed at ensuring the safety of wind turbine foundations.
4. Corrosion and cracks
Due to harsh conditions, such as high salt and high humidity in the marine envi-
ronment, OWT foundations are prone to corrosion, which is one of the main reasons for
foundation damage. Recently, many corrosion detection techniques have been applied to
OWT foundation monitoring, such as corrosion coupons, electrochemical sensors, mag-
netic sensors, acoustic sensors, thermal cameras, radio frequency identification sensors,
radiography, and visual inspection [ 57].The monitoring of cracks in the foundation is equally
important to that of crack monitoring in the tower. However, offshore wind turbine foundations
are located underwater for long periods of time, and welding joints are the weakest part of the
foundation. Under the action of long-term cyclic loads, it is necessary to monitor the fatigue
behavior of the weld seams. The weld seam location is prone to stress concentration, which
can cause local cracks [ 58]. Kolios et al. (2019) proposed a method for calculating the stress
concentration factors of weld seams by combining 3D laser scanning technology with finite
element analysis cameras and critical points where fatigue cracks may occur [ 59]. Additionally ,
utilizing corrosion and crack monitoring results is very important for OWT operation and
maintenance as well as predicting the remaining service life.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 7 of 17
5. Scouring
Scouring can be measured by single-wave velocity and multi-wave velocity instruments
to detect changes in the terrain near the foundation at different locations, obtaining information
about foundation erosion. However, the underwater terrain measurement method has high
costs, is highly influenced by sea conditions, and cannot provide real-time erosion information.
Recently , wind farms have begun to adopt a local scouring real-time monitoring technology
based on sonar image processing technology , which can achieve the continuous, unattended,
real-time monitoring of underwater terrain data around the foundation.
In addition, scouring decreases the buried depth of the OWT foundation; accordingly ,
structural dynamic properties change due to the scouring. Thus, structural dynamic charac-
teristics (e.g., frequency , the damping ratio, and mode shapes) are employed as an indicator
of the scouring [ 60–62]. Weijtjens et al. (2017) analyzed the modal parameters of OWTs and
found that the resonance frequency of the second-order mode is most closely related to OWT
scouring [ 62]. It can be used to quickly assess scouring conditions. Wang et al. (2023) used
finite element models to analyze the characteristics of vibration frequencies at different
scouring depths and proposed a scouring depth warning method based on changes in natu-
ral frequencies [ 63]. It is recommended to issue warnings when the decrease in operational
frequency reaches 0.01 Hz.
6. Grouted connections
For OWTs, there is a layer of grout in the overlapping part of the tower and the
OWT foundation connection. The grout quality must be checked to avoid the risk of
slippage in the transition section, which can be monitored by electromechanical impedance
spectroscopy [ 64]. Brett et al. (2018) adopted a swept frequency ultrasonic technique, which
can map the resonances characteristic of the structure and its various fault conditions [ 65].
7. Marine growth
Marine growth can produce hydrodynamic effects [ 66] and affect the modal charac-
teristics of OWTs. Jahjouh conducted research on the impact of marine growth on OWT
modal parameters to distinguish the differences between modal parameters caused by
marine growth and structural damage, providing a reference for analyzing abnormal modal
parameters of OWTs [67].
2.3. Challenges in SHM of OWT Support Structures
The offshore wind power industry continues to thrive and expand into deeper and
further seas, foreshadowing a promising future for the operation and maintenance market
of offshore wind farms. The above review part delved into the current monitoring items
associated with SHM strategies for OWT support structures. Upon analyzing current SHM
strategies for foundations and towers, the following challenges have been identified:
1. The challenging offshore environment leads to a significant probability of sensor
failures within the monitoring system, resulting in data loss and posing formidable
challenges for subsequent data analysis and processing. It is imperative to enhance
the reliability of the monitoring system and design a resilient monitoring system.
2. Monitoring typically involves the assessment of parameters such as acceleration,
strain, and displacement, leading to the generation of highly diverse monitoring data.
This poses a significant challenge for data analysis and makes it arduous to assess the
service status of OWTs using multi-source heterogeneous monitoring data.
3. The health monitoring of OWT support structures can slash operation and maintenance
costs while reducing the number of days required for troubleshooting and repairs.
4. The number of OWT support structures being monitored in wind farms is restricted,
and the monitoring process may not be continuous. The monitoring cycles of various
projects vary distinctly, ranging from testing intervals of 1 to 5 years. Long-term
real-time monitoring needs to be paid more attention for future progress.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 8 of 17
5. The offshore real-time data transmission network limits the intelligent development of
the monitoring system. Currently, there is limited real-time and intelligent capability,
with only a few wind farms achieving the automated real-time monitoring of OWT
support structures.
6. Given the current primitive state of intelligence in this field, the data processing
for wind farm health monitoring and maintenance necessitates a high degree of
professionalism from personnel. Currently, there is a scarcity of specialized teams
capable of meeting these demands.
3. Fault Diagnosis of OWT Support Structures
Health monitoring data hold valuable insights into environmental effects, structural
response, and performance evolution. It is crucial to diagnose the service status of OWT
support structures based on these data. Given the current research landscape, fault diag-
nosis can be broadly categorized into four distinct methods: model-based fault diagnosis,
vibration-based methods, artificial intelligence methods, and hybrid fault diagnosis meth-
ods. A comprehensive overview of the research status of these four fault diagnosis methods
is provided below.
3.1. Model-Based Fault Diagnosis
The monitoring of OWT support structures typically only covers about 10% of the
total number of OWTs in a wind farm. How can fault diagnosis be effectively conducted for
the unmonitored OWTs? Furthermore, with the installation of OWT health monitoring sys-
tems, how can fault alarm thresholds be accurately set? Addressing these challenges may
require the integration of numerical simulation. The service status of unmonitored OWTs
can be generated utilizing validated OWT numerical models, introducing real external
loads, analyzing the OWTs response through numerical simulation, and performing fault
diagnosis. For the second scenario, models are employed to analyze the OWT potential
responses under various damage conditions, enabling the extraction of pertinent response
parameters such as changes in modal parameters under varying erosion depths and ac-
celeration responses under potential earthquake loads. The flowchart for model-based
fault diagnosis is outlined below in Figure 3 [ 68]. By using the OWT design parameters to
establish numerical model and inputting environmental loads, static and dynamic analyses
of the wind turbine can be conducted to obtain the response of the OWT support structure.
Based on the response results, the service status of the wind turbine can be evaluated.
Tewolde et al. (2017) utilized a validated finite element model, incorporating monitoring
data, to analyze parameter indicators under different damage conditions of the OWT,
thus aiding in determining health detection thresholds [ 69]. Li et al. (2020) utilized finite
element analysis to analyze the static and dynamic responses of a tower, providing valuable
engineering recommendations for monitoring [ 70]. It is noteworthy that during service,
the stiffness of the OWT foundations may vary due to structural damage or soil strength
degradation. McAdam et al. (2023) proposed a method to estimate foundation stiffness
based on field monitoring modal characteristics [71].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 9 of 17
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 
2024
,
 
12
, x FOR PEER 
REVIEW
 
9
 
of 
17
 
 
 
 
Numerical model
Calculation
Environment loads
Static response
Dynamic response
Diagnosis
Diagnosis results
 
Figure 3. 
The ﬂowchart of model
-
based fault diagnosis (the data 
were 
from [72
,
73]).
 
3.2. 
Vibration
-
Based 
Fault Diagnosis Methods
 
The vibration
-
based fault diagnosis method was adopted in
 
the
 
civil engineering 
sec-
tor in 
the 1980s [74]. The fault diagnosis may be called signal
-
based fault diagnosis 
by 
some researchers,
 
as it
 
includes 
electrical signals, vibration, sound signals. However, in
 
the
 
OWT monitoring area
,
 
the most commonly used signals are the vibration data. Figure 
4 illustrates how vibration data can be utilized for fault diagnosis. Initially, the accelera-
tion data captured by the accelerometers on site undergo preprocessing. Subsequently, 
modal paramete
rs are identiﬁed using
 
a
 
Stochastic Subspace Identiﬁcatio
n method or 
other reliable methods. By utilizing the frequency obtained from modal identiﬁcation, a 
comparison is made with the OWT required frequency for conducting fault diagnosis. 
Valencia and Fassois (2017) carried out analysis of a
n
 
OWT model and collected the vibra-
tion data from the tower top and blades [75]. The results 
showed 
that the vibration
–
based 
damage diagnosis method for structures appears
 
to be
 
appealing and promising. How-
ever, the vibration sensors
 
located
 
mainly at the tower top and blade
s [76] 
could not 
gen-
erate the modal parameters of the OWT system and the review in this paper mainly fo-
cus
ed
 
on the fault diagnosis based on the vibration data collected from diﬀerent height
s
 
of the tower. The on
-
site vibration monitoring data of OWTs are typically not publicly 
accessible, and there is a scarcity of publicly available databases. Dong et al. (2018) utilized 
OWT vibration monitoring data to analyze the structural vibration respo
nse characteris-
tics of OWTs, providing technical support for OWT
 
fault diagnosis [77]. Weijtjens et al. 
(2017) employed OWT acceleration data to investigate the modal parameter characteris-
tics of OWTs and employed resonance frequency to monitor scour damage of OWTs [62]. 
Jeong et al. (2020) presented a multisensory dat
a fusion
-
based damage detection method 
utilizing wireless smart sensors for OWT support structures [78]. They validated the pro-
posed method using numerical simulation and indoor experiments. Currently, there is a 
lack of support from actual OWT monitoring 
data.
 
Figure 3. The flowchart of model-based fault diagnosis (the data were from [72,73]).
3.2. Vibration-Based Fault Diagnosis Methods
The vibration-based fault diagnosis method was adopted in the civil engineering
sector in the 1980s [ 74]. The fault diagnosis may be called signal-based fault diagnosis by
some researchers, as it includes electrical signals, vibration, sound signals. However, in the
OWT monitoring area, the most commonly used signals are the vibration data. Figure 4
illustrates how vibration data can be utilized for fault diagnosis. Initially, the acceleration
data captured by the accelerometers on site undergo preprocessing. Subsequently, modal
parameters are identified using a Stochastic Subspace Identification method or other reliable
methods. By utilizing the frequency obtained from modal identification, a comparison
is made with the OWT required frequency for conducting fault diagnosis. Valencia and
Fassois (2017) carried out analysis of an OWT model and collected the vibration data
from the tower top and blades [ 75]. The results showed that the vibration–based damage
diagnosis method for structures appears to be appealing and promising. However, the
vibration sensors located mainly at the tower top and blades [ 76] could not generate the
modal parameters of the OWT system and the review in this paper mainly focused on the
fault diagnosis based on the vibration data collected from different heights of the tower.
The on-site vibration monitoring data of OWTs are typically not publicly accessible, and
there is a scarcity of publicly available databases. Dong et al. (2018) utilized OWT vibration
monitoring data to analyze the structural vibration response characteristics of OWTs,
providing technical support for OWT fault diagnosis [ 77]. Weijtjens et al. (2017) employed
OWT acceleration data to investigate the modal parameter characteristics of OWTs and
employed resonance frequency to monitor scour damage of OWTs [ 62].Jeong et al. (2020)
presented a multisensory data fusion-based damage detection method utilizing wireless
smart sensors for OWT support structures [ 78]. They validated the proposed method using
numerical simulation and indoor experiments. Currently, there is a lack of support from
actual OWT monitoring data.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 10 of 17
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 
2024
,
 
12
, x FOR PEER 
REVIEW
 
10
 
of 
17
 
 
 
h1
h2
h3
h4
Accelerometers 
Data pre
-
processing
Data collecting
Time
-
history accelerations
Model parameters identification
Fault diagnosis
 
Figure 4. 
Schematic diagram of vibration
-
based fault diagnosis methods.
 
3.3. 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence Methods
 
With the development of artiﬁcial intelligence, more and more researchers are ex-
ploring the use of machine learning methods to solve the problem of fault diagnosis for 
OWTs 
[79
–
81
]. Relying on intelligent robots for data collection and intelligent algorithms 
for damage identiﬁcation, the accuracy rate can reach up to 90% [13]. Santos et al. (2022) 
utilized 
a 
large amount of monitoring data from OWTs to train a two
-
tier neural network 
model to obtain damage equivalent loads for tower fore
–
aft (FA) bending 
moments [25]. 
Puruncajas
 
et al. (2020) proposed a method based on acceleration and deep convolutional 
neural networks using 
acceleration data collected from indoor scaled model tests [
54
]. 
This method can achieve
 
the
 
intelligent identiﬁcation of diﬀerent damage conditions with 
an accuracy rate of up to 99%, and it is expected to be used for damage identiﬁcation of 
future jacket support structures for OWTs. Guo et al. proposed an unsupervised statistical 
estimation 
method to detect structural damage, but this method only considers two static 
parameters: inclination and displacement [
82
]. Feijóo et al. (2021) utilized monitorin
g data 
from healthy OWTs to train a neural network model for fault diagnosis [
55
]. Some scholars 
have also used machine learning methods to evaluate the service performance of OWT 
foundations, including cracks and corrosion, in order to achieve life
-
extension classiﬁca-
tion [
83
]. Additionally, digital twin technology is currently a popular area for scholars and 
wind power practitioners [6]. The digital twin intelligent operation and maintenance dia-
gram for OWTs is shown below in Figure 5. The digital twin t
echnology utilized by OWTs 
creates a virtual model based on the physical model, mirroring its actual behavior. This 
Figure 4. Schematic diagram of vibration-based fault diagnosis methods.
3.3. Artificial Intelligence Methods
With the development of artificial intelligence, more and more researchers are ex-
ploring the use of machine learning methods to solve the problem of fault diagnosis for
OWTs [ 79–81]. Relying on intelligent robots for data collection and intelligent algorithms
for damage identification, the accuracy rate can reach up to 90% [ 13]. Santos et al. (2022)
utilized a large amount of monitoring data from OWTs to train a two-tier neural network
model to obtain damage equivalent loads for tower fore–aft (FA) bending moments [ 25].
Puruncajas et al. (2020) proposed a method based on acceleration and deep convolutional
neural networks using acceleration data collected from indoor scaled model tests [ 54].
This method can achieve the intelligent identification of different damage conditions with
an accuracy rate of up to 99%, and it is expected to be used for damage identification of
future jacket support structures for OWTs. Guo et al. proposed an unsupervised statistical
estimation method to detect structural damage, but this method only considers two static
parameters: inclination and displacement [ 82]. Feij óo et al. (2021) utilized monitoring
data from healthy OWTs to train a neural network model for fault diagnosis [ 55]. Some
scholars have also used machine learning methods to evaluate the service performance
of OWT foundations, including cracks and corrosion, in order to achieve life-extension
classification [83] . Additionally, digital twin technology is currently a popular area for
scholars and wind power practitioners [ 6]. The digital twin intelligent operation and main-
tenance diagram for OWTs is shown below in Figure 5. The digital twin technology utilized
by OWTs creates a virtual model based on the physical model, mirroring its actual behavior.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 11 of 17
This process begins by establishing a numerical model using design data. Subsequently, the
response characteristics of the OWTs are analyzed through monitoring data, enabling the
extraction of modal parameters. To ensure the accuracy of the virtual model, the frequency
calculation results from the numerical model are compared with those obtained from analy-
sis results using monitoring data and then update the numerical model. Ultimately, a robust
virtual model that faithfully reflects the actual behavior of the OWT is established. This
virtual model serves as a powerful tool for numerical simulation analysis, fault diagnosis,
and structural prognosis, and it also offers valuable insights for wind turbine operation
and maintenance. Furthermore, throughout the operational lifecycle of OWT, both the
physical and virtual models can be updated in real time, enhancing the overall safety of
the operation and maintenance system. With the development of artificial intelligence,
enhanced digital twin technology is also emerging [83].
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 
2024
,
 
12
, x FOR PEER 
REVIEW
 
11
 
of 
17
 
 
 
process begins by establishing a numerical model using design data. Subsequently, the 
response characteristics of the OWTs are analyzed through monitoring data, enabling the 
extraction of modal parameters. To ensure the accuracy of the virtual model, the f
re-
quency calculation results from the numerical model are compared with those obtained 
from analysis result
s
 
using monitoring data and
 
then
 
updat
e
 
the numerical mod
e
l. Ulti-
mately, a robust virtual model that faithfully reﬂects the actual behavior of the O
WT is 
established. This virtual model serves as a powerful tool for numerical simulation analy-
sis, fault diagnosis, 
and 
structural prognosis, and it also oﬀers valuable insights for wind 
turbine operation and maintenance. Furthermore, throughout the operational lifecycle of 
OWT, both the physical and virtual models can be updated in real
 
time, enhancing the 
overall safety of the operation and maintenance system. With the development of artiﬁcial 
intelligence, enhanced digital twin technology is also emerg
ing [
83
].
 
Physical model
Virtual model
Health monitoring data
Numerical simulation
Fault diagnosis
OWT maintenance suggestions 
Response analysis
Model updating
 
Model building
Structural prognosis
 
Figure 5. 
Digital twin intelligent operation and maintenance diagram for OWTs.
 
 
 
Figure 5. Digital twin intelligent operation and maintenance diagram for OWTs.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 12 of 17
3.4. Hybrid Fault Diagnosis Methods
With the current development and technological advancements in offshore wind
power, an increasing number of methods are being used for OWT fault diagnosis [ 84]. As
shown in Figure 6, the combination of monitoring data and numerical simulation was
carried out to update the finite element model of OWTs, allowing for further analysis of
their dynamic response and damage conditions [ 85,86]. During the simulation process, an
integrated bounding surface model can be employed for the soil model under dynamic
loads [ 87], while a simplified numerical model, such as the lumped parameter model [ 88],
can be utilized for OWTs. Iliopoulos et al. (2016) utilized limited monitoring displacement
and acceleration data in combination with finite element software to estimate the response
at the unmonitored location [89].
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 
2024
,
 
12
, x FOR PEER 
REVIEW
 
12
 
of 
17
 
 
 
3.4. 
Hybrid Fault Diagnosis Methods
 
With the 
current development and technological advancements in oﬀshore wind 
power, an increasing number of methods are being used for OWT fault diagnosis [
84
]. As 
shown in Figure 6, the combination of monitoring data and numerical simulation was 
carried out to update the ﬁnite element model of OWTs, allowing for further analysis of 
their dynamic response and damage conditions [
85
,
86
].
 
During the simulation process, an 
integrated bounding surface model can be employed for the soil model under dynamic 
loads
 
[
87
], wh
ile a simpliﬁed numerical model, such as the 
l
umped 
p
arameter 
m
odel
 
[
88
], 
can be utilized for OWTs. 
Iliopoulos
 
et al. (2016) utilized limited monitoring displacement 
and acceleration data in combination with ﬁnite element software to estimate the response 
at the unmonitored location [
8
9
].
 
Data 
collection
Response 
analysis
Results
Model 
verification
Simulation
Analysis
Hybrid  methods
Vibration
-
based
Model
-
 
based
HSM
……
Numerical model
 
Figure 6. 
Combination of monitoring data and numerical model.
 
4. 
Discussion
 
The fault diagnosis methods of the OWT support structures 
were 
compared
,
 
as 
shown in Table 1.
 
Table 1. 
Advantages and 
disadvantages of various methods for fault diagnosis.
 
Methods
 
Advantages
 
Disadvantages
 
Model
-
based 
fault diagnosis
 
Able to analyze the service status of unmonitored 
OWT support structures using numerical simulation;
 
The SHM system has a limited number of measure-
ment points and using validated models, information 
such as acceleration, displacement, and bending mo-
ment can be obtained for unmeasured points.
 
There is a high demand for numerical analysis skills for 
workers;
 
Modeling takes a long time, as each OWT has a different 
structure, foundation, and ground environment, requiring 
separate modeling for analysis;
 
Real
-
time OWT support structure service status cannot be 
obtained, requiring a long time for analysis and diagnosis.
 
Vibration
-
based 
fault diagnosis 
methods
 
It is able to quickly diagnose the service status of OWT 
support structures using monitoring data;
 
Vibration data can be used to reflect the erosion status 
of OWT support structures;
 
The vibration characteristics of OWT support struc-
tures can be obtained through ship collisions, allowing 
for multiple monitoring during service.
 
Only a small number of OWT support structures in wind 
farms have installed health monitoring systems, limiting 
health diagnosis to only monitored OWT support struc-
tures;
 
The harsh service environment of sensors leads to a high 
probability of sensor failure and data loss;
 
The modal parameters of OWT support structures are dif-
ficult to accurately identify due to environmental loads 
and rotor rotation.
 
Artificial intelli-
gence 
methods
 
It can achieve multi
-
source and heterogeneous data fu-
sion to determine the service status of OWT;
 
There is significant room for future development, with 
the potential for real
-
time intelligent monitoring.
 
The large volume of data results in time
-
consuming calcu-
lations for machine learning models;
 
A significant amount of data 
are
 
required for support, yet 
currently, most offshore wind farm support structure 
monitoring data remain undisclosed.
 
Figure 6. Combination of monitoring data and numerical model.
4. Discussion
The fault diagnosis methods of the OWT support structures were compared, as shown
in Table 1.
Table 1. Advantages and disadvantages of various methods for fault diagnosis.
Methods Advantages Disadvantages
Model-based
fault diagnosisAble to analyze the service status of unmonitored OWT
support structures using numerical simulation;
The SHM system has a limited number of measurement
points and using validated models, information such as
acceleration, displacement, and bending moment can be
obtained for unmeasured points.There is a high demand for numerical analysis skills
for workers;
Modeling takes a long time, as each OWT has a different
structure, foundation, and ground environment,
requiring separate modeling for analysis;
Real-time OWT support structure service status cannot
be obtained, requiring a long time for analysis
and diagnosis.
Vibration-based fault
diagnosis methodsIt is able to quickly diagnose the service status of OWT
support structures using monitoring data;
Vibration data can be used to reflect the erosion status of
OWT support structures;
The vibration characteristics of OWT support structures
can be obtained through ship collisions, allowing for
multiple monitoring during service.Only a small number of OWT support structures in wind
farms have installed health monitoring systems, limiting
health diagnosis to only monitored OWT
support structures;
The harsh service environment of sensors leads to a high
probability of sensor failure and data loss;
The modal parameters of OWT support structures are
difficult to accurately identify due to environmental
loads and rotor rotation.
Artificial
intelligence methodsIt can achieve multi-source and heterogeneous data
fusion to determine the service status of OWT;
There is significant room for future development, with
the potential for real-time intelligent monitoring.The large volume of data results in time-consuming
calculations for machine learning models;
A significant amount of data are required for support, yet
currently , most offshore wind farm support structure
monitoring data remain undisclosed.
Hybrid fault
diagnosis methodsCombining the advantages of data-driven and
physics-based models to compensate for their
respective disadvantages;
There is significant room for future development.It is challenging to achieve real-time diagnosis;
Professional personnel are required to diagnose faults by
combining monitoring data with numerical
simulation results.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 13 of 17
Based on the above analysis, the following are some comments on future development:
1. While the monitoring of OWT farms may be not conducted in real time, it serves as
an assessment of the operational and maintenance status of OWT support structures
using monitoring data. However, there is a lack of research on long-term vibration
monitoring to evaluate OWT support structures safety, indicating significant potential
for future development in this area.
2. The current level of real-time diagnosis and alarming is relatively low. Current
monitoring or fault diagnosis only assesses the current OWT support structures status
and lacks the ability to predict potential future failures. Predicting failures based on
current monitoring data is crucial and there is ample room for future advancements.
3. It is also crucial to combine diagnosis results to develop reasonable overhaul or
operation and maintenance strategies. This can significantly reduce operation and
maintenance expenses and time for offshore wind farms.
4. The current level of real-time monitoring is limited. It requires a significant amount
of time to diagnose OWT support structures using monitoring data, numerical sim-
ulations, or artificial intelligence. This results in a delay in fault diagnosis and an
inability to promptly address the service status.
5. Current research mainly focuses on monitoring damage through frequency changes,
but there is still a lack of research on how to quantify the relationship between
frequency and damage, such as cracks. In addition, further research is needed on
foundation stiffness during storms and the distinction between temporary and perma-
nent changes, in order to obtain data on permanent stiffness changes, which is crucial
for evaluating the status of OWT support structures.
6. OWT support structure monitoring data provide important data support for its
remaining lifespan and strategic choices after decommissioning it. Therefore, it
is essential to conduct in-depth exploration of the characteristics of OWT support
structures, utilizing the monitoring data.
7. In the future, artificial intelligence technology holds great potential for OWT sup-
port structures monitoring and fault diagnosis, particularly in the development of
remote intelligent monitoring and fault warning platforms. These platforms can assist
wind power operation and maintenance personnel in quickly assessing the opera-
tional status of wind turbines, issuing advance warnings for OWT support structure
malfunctions, and ultimately preventing significant economic losses.
5. Conclusions
In this paper, an overview of SHM and fault diagnosis for OWT support structures
was presented. SHM and fault diagnosis for OWT support structures are crucial to reducing
maintenance costs in offshore wind farms. The monitoring strategies for tower and foun-
dation structures can provide valuable insights for the design of monitoring strategies for
OWTs support structures. Additionally, the field of fault diagnosis in OWTs has developed
significantly with the application of artificial intelligence techniques. Based on the reviewed
literature, the following conclusions are drawn:
1. The monitoring and fault diagnosis of OWTs are of utmost significance, as they not
only reduce operational and maintenance costs for OWT farms, but also provide
technical support for the performance evaluation of supporting structures at the end
of their service life [90].
2. Utilizing modal parameters changes for OWT support structure fault identification is
widely adopted; however, the accuracy of modal parameter identification requires
stringent conditions, and identification is greatly influenced by environmental inter-
ference and OWT operational loads.
3. The real-time monitoring and fault diagnosis of wind farms are essential and require
further development in the future. Digital twin holds great potential for growth. Utiliz-
ing machine learning for fault recognition can be time-consuming and the processing
and utilization efficiency of real-time data remains relatively low. Furthermore, there
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 14 of 17
is a scarcity of databases accessible to all parties involved in wind power, hindering
the optimization of fault diagnosis methods.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, F.L. and Y.Y.; methodology, Q.Z.; investigation, Y.Y.;
writing—original draft preparation, Y.Y.; writing—review and editing, Q.Z.; visualization, H.Z.;
supervision, F.L.; project administration, F.L.; funding acquisition, F.L. and Y.Y. All authors have read
and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No.
52178346), the Top Discipline Plan of Shanghai Universities-Class I (Grant No. 2022-3-YB-02), the
Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities, the Shanghai Post-doctoral Excellence Program
(Grant No. 2022588), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (Grant No. 2023M742666), and the Soft
Science Project of Shanghai Science and Technology Innovation Action Plan (Grant No. 23692122600).
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: The authors are deeply grateful to the anonymous reviewers for their invaluable
feedback. Their comments and suggestions have significantly enhanced the quality of the paper.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
References
1. Antoniadou, I.; Dervilis, N.; Papatheou, E.; Maguire, A.E.; Worden, K. Aspects of structural health and condition monitoring of
offshore wind turbines. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. A Math. Phys. Eng. Sci. 2015 ,373, 20140075. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
2. Beganovic, N.; Söffker, D. Structural health management utilization for lifetime prognosis and advanced control strategy
deployment of wind turbines: An overview and outlook concerning actual methods, tools, and obtained results. Renew. Sustain.
Energy Rev. 2016 ,64, 68–83. [CrossRef]
3. Tautz-Weinert, J.; Watson, S.J. Using SCADA data for wind turbine condition monitoring—A review. IET Renew. Power Gener.
2017 ,11, 382–394. [CrossRef]
4. Márquez, F.P .G.; Tobias, A.M.; P érez, J.M.P .; Papaelias, M. Condition monitoring of wind turbines: Techniques and methods.
Renew. Energy 2012 ,46, 169–178. [CrossRef]
5. Amirat, Y.; Benbouzid, M.E.H.; Al-Ahmar, E.; Bensaker, B.; Turri, S. A brief status on condition monitoring and fault diagnosis in
wind energy conversion systems. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2009 ,13, 2629–2636. [CrossRef]
6. Xia, J.J.; Zou, G. Operation and maintenance optimization of offshore wind farms based on digital twin: A review. Ocean Eng.
2023 ,268, 113322. [CrossRef]
7. Martinez Luengo, M.; Kolios, A. Failure mode identification and end of life scenarios of offshore wind turbines: A review. Energies
2015 ,8, 8339–8354. [CrossRef]
8. Wang, M.M.; Wang, C.Y.; Hnydiuk-Stefan, A.; Feng, S.Z.; Atilla, I.; Li, Z.X. Recent progress on reliability analysis of offshore wind
turbine support structures considering digital twin solutions. Ocean Eng. 2021 ,232, 109168. [CrossRef]
9. Mendes, P .; Correia, J.A.; Mour ão, A.; Pereira, R.; Fantuzzi, N.; De Jesus, A.; Calçada, R. Fatigue assessments of a jacket-type
offshore structure based on static and dynamic analyses. Pract. Period. Struct. Des. Constr. 2021 ,26, 04020054. [CrossRef]
10. Zhu, Q.X.; Wang, H.; Spencer, B.F., Jr. Investigation on vibration behavior of a high-speed railway bridge based on monitoring
data. Smart Struct. Syst. 2023 ,31, 585–599. [CrossRef]
11. Zhu, Q.X.; Wang, H.; Zhu, X.J.; Spencer, B.F., Jr. Investigation on the pattern for train-induced strains of a long-span steel truss
railway bridge. Eng. Struct. 2023 ,275, 115268. [CrossRef]
12. Sajedi, S.; Liang, X. Deep generative Bayesian optimization for sensor placement in structural health monitoring. Comput.-Aided
Civ. Infrastruct. Eng. 2022 ,37, 1109–1127. [CrossRef]
13. Liu, Y.; Hajj, M.; Bao, Y. Review of robot-based damage assessment for offshore wind turbines. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2022 ,
158, 112187. [CrossRef]
14. Chou, J.S.; Ou, Y .C.; Lin, K.Y . Collapse mechanism and risk management of wind turbine tower in strong wind. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn.
2019 ,193, 103962. [CrossRef]
15. Yamaguchi, A.; Danupon, S.; Ishihara, T. Numerical prediction of tower loading of floating offshore wind turbine considering
effects of wind and wave. Energies 2022 ,15, 2313. [CrossRef]
16. Fan, W.; Qiao, P .Z. Vibration-based damage identification methods: A review and comparative study. Struct. Health Monit. 2011 ,
10, 83–111. [CrossRef]
17. Kim, H.C.; Kim, M.H.; Choe, D.E. Structural health monitoring of towers and blades for floating offshore wind turbines using
operational modal analysis and modal properties with numerical-sensor signals. Ocean Eng. 2019 ,188, 106226. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 15 of 17
18. Kim, W.; Yi, J.H.; Kim, J.T.; Park, J.H. Vibration-based structural health assessment of a wind turbine tower using a wind turbine
model. Procedia Eng. 2017 ,188, 333–339. [CrossRef]
19. Zhou, L.; Li, Y.; Liu, F.S.; Jiang, Z.Q.; Yu, Q.X.; Liu, L.J. Investigation of dynamic characteristics of a monopile wind turbine based
on sea test. Ocean Eng. 2019 ,189, 106308. [CrossRef]
20. Gansel, R.; Maier, H.J.; Barton, S. Detection and characterization of fatigue cracks in butt welds of offshore structures using the
eddy current method. J. Nondestruct. Eval. Diagn. Progn. Eng. Syst. 2023 ,6, 021001. [CrossRef]
21. He, M.J.; Bai, X.; Ma, R.L.; Huang, D.P . Structural monitoring of an onshore wind turbine foundation using strain sensors.
Struct. Infrastruct. Eng. 2019 ,15, 314–333. [CrossRef]
22. Cicero, S.; Lacalle, R.; Cicero, R. Estimation of the maximum allowable lack of penetration defects in circumferential butt welds of
structural tubular towers. Eng. Struct. 2009 ,31, 2123–2131. [CrossRef]
23. Capaldo, M.; Orsatelli, J.B.; Curt, J.; Julan, E. Influence of cracks on the buckling of wind turbine towers. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2020 ,
1618 , 022001. [CrossRef]
24. Civera, M.; Surace, C. Non-Destructive Techniques for the Condition and Structural Health Monitoring of Wind Turbines:
A Literature Review of the Last 20 Years. Sensors 2022 ,22, 1627. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
25. Santos, F.D.N.; Noppe, N.; Weijtjens, W.; Devriendt, C. Data-driven farm-wide fatigue estimation on jacket foundation OWTs for
multiple SHM setups. Wind Energy Sci. Discuss. 2022 ,7, 299–321. [CrossRef]
26. Jay, A.; Myers, A.T.; Mirzaie, F.; Mahmoud, A.; Torabian, S.; Smith, E.; Schafer, B.W. Large-scale bending tests of slender tapered
spirally welded steel tubes. J. Struct. Eng. 2016 ,142, 04016136. [CrossRef]
27. Yadav, K.K.; Gerasimidis, S. Instability of thin steel cylindrical shells under bending. Thin-Walled Struct. 2019 ,137, 151–166.
[CrossRef]
28. Fajuyitan, O.K.; Sadowski, A.J. Imperfection sensitivity in cylindrical shells under uniform bending. Adv. Struct. Eng. 2018 ,21, 2433–2453.
[CrossRef]
29. Guo, L.H.; Yang, S.J.; Jiao, H. Behavior of thin-walled circular hollow section tubes subjected to bending. Thin-Walled Struct. 2013 ,
73, 281–289. [CrossRef]
30. Blachowski, B.; Gutkowski, W. Effect of damaged circular flange-bolted connections on behaviour of tall towers, modelled by
multilevel substructuring. Eng. Struct. 2016 ,111, 93–103. [CrossRef]
31. Liu, Z.C.; Huang, X.B.; Zhao, L.; Wen, G.R.; Feng, G.Z.; Zhang, Y. Research on online monitoring technology for transmission
tower bolt looseness. Measurement 2023 ,223, 113703. [CrossRef]
32. Liu, P .T.; Wang, X.P .; Wang, Y.Q.; Zhu, J.; Ji, X.Y. Research on percussion-based bolt looseness monitoring under noise interference
and insufficient samples. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2024 ,208, 111013. [CrossRef]
33. Liang, D.; Yuan, S.F. Decision fusion system for bolted joint monitoring. Shock Vib. 2015 ,2015 , 592043. [CrossRef]
34. Ji, X.D.; Zou, T.; Bai, X.; Niu, X.B.; Tao, L.B. Fatigue assessment of flange connections in offshore wind turbines under the initial
flatness divergence. Front. Energy Res. 2023 ,11, 1127957. [CrossRef]
35. Cheng, L.; Yang, F.; Winkes, J.S.; Veljkovic, M. The C1 wedge connection in towers for wind turbine structures, tensile behaviour
of a segment test. Eng. Struct. 2023 ,282, 115799. [CrossRef]
36. Li, S.Z.; Li, H.; Zhou, X.H.; Wang, Y.H.; Li, X.H.; Gan, D.; Zhu, R.H. Damage detection of flange bolts in wind turbine towers
using dynamic strain responses. J. Civ. Struct. Health Monit. 2023 ,13, 67–81. [CrossRef]
37. He, X.L.; Tianli, S. A new identification method for bolt looseness in wind turbine towers. Shock Vib. 2019 ,2019 , 6056181.
[CrossRef]
38. Pekedis, M.; Mascerañas, D.; Turan, G.; Ercan, E.; Farrar, C.R.; Yildiz, H. Structural health monitoring for bolt loosening via a
non-invasive vibro-haptics human-machine cooperative interface. Smart Mater. Struct. 2015 ,24, 085018. [CrossRef]
39. Yang, X.Y.; Gao, Y.Q.; Fang, C.; Zheng, Y.; Wang, W. Deep learning-based bolt loosening detection for wind turbine towers.
Struct. Control Health Monit. 2022 ,29, e2943. [CrossRef]
40. Nguyen, T.C.; Huynh, T.C.; Ryu, J.Y.; Park, J.H.; Kim, J.T. Bolt-loosening identification of bolt connections by vision image-based
technique. Nondestruct. Charact. Monit. Adv. Mater. Aerosp. Civ. Infrastruct. 2016 ,9804 , 227–243. [CrossRef]
41. Dai, K.S.; Du, H.; Luo, Y.X.; Han, R.; Li, J. Stress distribution prediction of circular hollow section tube in flexible high-neck flange
joints based on the hybrid machine learning model. Materials 2023 ,16, 6815. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
42. Biswal, R.; Al Mamun, A.; Mehmanparast, A. On the performance of monopile weldments under service loading conditions and
fatigue damage prediction. Fatigue Fract. Eng. Mater. Struct. 2021 ,44, 1469–1483. [CrossRef]
43. Yue, Y.C.; Tian, J.J.; Bai, Y.T.; Jia, K.; He, J.; Luo, D.; Chen, T.B. Applicability analysis of inspection and monitoring technologies in
wind turbine towers. Shock Vib. 2021 ,2021 , 1–10. [CrossRef]
44. Farhan, M.; Schneider, R.; Thöns, S. Predictive information and maintenance optimization based on decision theory: A case study
considering a welded joint in an offshore wind turbine support structure. Struct. Health Monit. 2022 ,21, 185–207. [CrossRef]
45. Weijtjens, W.; Stang, A.; Devriendt, C.; Schaumann, P . Bolted ring flanges in offshore-wind support structures-in-situ validation of
load-transfer behaviour. J. Constr. Steel Res. 2021 ,176, 106361. [CrossRef]
46. Nguyen, T.C.; Huynh, T.C.; Yi, J.H.; Kim, J.T. Hybrid bolt-loosening detection in wind turbine tower structures by vibration and
impedance responses. Wind Struct. 2017 ,24, 385–403. [CrossRef]
47. Park, J.H.; Huynh, T.C.; Choi, S.H.; Kim, J.T. Vision-based technique for bolt-loosening detection in wind turbine tower. Wind Struct.
2015 ,21, 709–726. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 16 of 17
48. Xu, M.Q.; Au, F.T.; Wang, S.Q.; Wang, Z.S.; Peng, Q.; Tian, H.Y. Dynamic response analysis of a real-world operating offshore
wind turbine under earthquake excitations. Ocean. Eng. 2022 ,266, 112791. [CrossRef]
49. Kim, K.; Kim, H.; Lee, J.; Kim, S.; Paek, I. Design and performance analysis of control algorithm for a floating wind turbine on a
large semi-submersible platform. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2016 ,753, 092017. [CrossRef]
50. Gorostidi, N.; Pardo, D.; Nava, V . Diagnosis of the health status of mooring systems for floating offshore wind turbines using
autoencoders. Ocean Eng. 2023 ,287, 115862. [CrossRef]
51. Ziegler, L.; Cosack, N.; Kolios, A.; Muskulus, M. Structural monitoring for lifetime extension of offshore wind monopiles:
Verification of strain-based load extrapolation algorithm. Mar. Struct. 2019 ,66, 154–163. [CrossRef]
52. Mieloszyk, M.; Ostachowicz, W. An application of structural health monitoring system based on FBG sensors to offshore wind
turbine support structure model. Mar. Struct. 2017 ,51, 65–86. [CrossRef]
53. Penner, N.; Grießmann, T.; Rolfes, R. Monitoring of suction bucket jackets for offshore wind turbines: Dynamic load bearing
behaviour and modelling. Mar. Struct. 2020 ,72, 102745. [CrossRef]
54. Puruncajas, B.; Vidal, Y.; Tutiv én, C. Vibration-response-only structural health monitoring for offshore wind turbine jacket
foundations via convolutional neural networks. Sensors 2020 ,20, 3429. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
55. Feijóo, M.D.C.; Zambrano, Y.; Vidal, Y.; Tutiv én, C. Unsupervised damage detection for offshore jacket wind turbine foundations
based on an autoencoder neural network. Sensors 2021 ,21, 3333. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
56. Weijtjens, W.; V erbelen, T.; De Sitter, G.; Devriendt, C. Foundation structural health monitoring of an offshore wind turbine—A full-scale
case study. Struct. Health Monit. 2016 ,15, 389–402. [CrossRef]
57. Brijder, R.; Hagen, C.H.; Cort és, A.; Irizar, A.; Thibbotuwa, U.C.; Helsen, S.; V ásquez, S.; Ompusunggu, A.P . Review of corrosion
monitoring and prognostics in offshore wind turbine structures: Current status and feasible approaches. Front. Energy Res. 2022 ,10, 1–22.
[CrossRef]
58. Schubnell, J.; Carl, E.; Widerspan, V .; Collmann, M. Determination of loading and residual stresses on offshore jacket structures
by X-ray diffraction. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1304. [CrossRef]
59. Kolios, A.; Wang, L.; Mehmanparast, A.; Brennan, F. Determination of stress concentration factors in offshore wind welded
structures through a hybrid experimental and numerical approach. Ocean Eng. 2019 ,178, 38–47. [CrossRef]
60. Zhang, P .; He, Z.J.; Cui, C.Y.; Ren, L.; Yao, R. Operational modal analysis of offshore wind turbine tower under ambient excitation.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 1963. [CrossRef]
61. Prendergast, L.J.; Gavin, K.; Doherty, P . An investigation into the effect of scour on the natural frequency of an offshore wind
turbine. Ocean Eng. 2015 ,101, 1–11. [CrossRef]
62. Weijtjens, W.; Verbelen, T.; Capello, E.; Devriendt, C. Vibration based structural health monitoring of the substructures of five
offshore wind turbines. Procedia Eng. 2017 ,199, 2294–2299. [CrossRef]
63. Wang, X.; Lin, P .; Huang, H.D.; Yuan, J.; Qiu, X.; Liu, X. Scour dynamic properties and online monitoring of offshore wind power
foundation. J. Tsinghua Univ. (Sci. Technol.) 2023 ,63, 1087–1094. [CrossRef]
64. Moll, J. Damage detection in grouted connections using electromechanical impedance spectroscopy. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. Part C
J. Mech. Eng. Sci. 2019 ,233, 947–950. [CrossRef]
65. Brett, C.R.; Gunn, D.A.; Dashwood, B.A.J.; Holyoake, S.J.; Wilkinson, P .B. Development of a technique for inspecting the
foundations of offshore wind turbines. Insight-Non-Destr. Test. Cond. Monit. 2018 ,60, 19–27. [CrossRef]
66. Schoefs, F.; O’byrne, M.; Pakrashi, V .; Ghosh, B.; Oumouni, M.; Soulard, T.; Reynaud, M. Fractal dimension as an effective feature
for characterizing hard marine growth roughness from underwater image processing in controlled and uncontrolled image
environments. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2021 ,9, 1344. [CrossRef]
67. Jahjouh, M. The effect of marine growth and damage severity on the modal parameters of offshore wind turbine supporting
structures: An experimental study. J. Vibroeng. 2020 ,23, 407–418. [CrossRef]
68. Gao, Z.W.; Liu, X.X. An overview on fault diagnosis, prognosis and resilient control for wind turbine systems. Processes 2021 ,9, 300.
[CrossRef]
69. Tewolde, S.; Höffer, R.; Haardt, H. Validated model based development of damage index for structural health monitoring of
offshore wind turbine support structures. Procedia Eng. 2017 ,199, 3242–3247. [CrossRef]
70. Li, M.Y.; Kefal, A.; Oterkus, E.; Oterkus, S. Structural health monitoring of an offshore wind turbine tower using iFEM
methodology. Ocean Eng. 2020 ,204, 107291. [CrossRef]
71. McAdam, R.A.; Chatzis, M.N.; Kuleli, M.; Anderson, E.F.; Byrne, B.W. Monopile foundation stiffness estimation of an instrumented
offshore wind turbine through model updating. Struct. Control Health Monit. 2023 ,2023 , 4474809. [CrossRef]
72. Liang, F.Y.; Yuan, Z.C.; Liang, X.; Zhang, H. Seismic response of monopile-supported offshore wind turbines under combined
wind, wave and hydrodynamic loads at scoured sites. Comput. Geotech. 2022 ,144, 104640. [CrossRef]
73. Yuan, Z.C.; Liang, F.Y.; Zhang, H.; Liang, X. Seismic analysis of a monopile-supported offshore wind turbine considering the effect
of scour-hole dimensions: Insights from centrifuge testing and numerical modelling. Ocean Eng. 2023 ,283, 115067. [CrossRef]
74. Martinez-Luengo, M.; Kolios, A.; Wang, L. Structural health monitoring of offshore wind turbines: A review through the statistical
pattern recognition paradigm. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,64, 91–105. [CrossRef]
75. Avendaño-Valencia, L.D.; Fassois, S.D. Damage/fault diagnosis in an operating wind turbine under uncertainty via a vibration
response Gaussian mixture random coefficient model based framework. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2017 ,91, 326–353. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2024 ,12, 377 17 of 17
76. Khadka, A.; Fick, B.; Afshar, A.; Tavakoli, M.; Baqersad, J. Non-contact vibration monitoring of rotating wind turbines using a
semi-autonomous UAV . Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2020 ,138, 106446. [CrossRef]
77. Dong, X.F.; Lian, J.J.; Wang, H.J.; Yu, T.S.; Zhao, Y. Structural vibration monitoring and operational modal analysis of offshore
wind turbine structure. Ocean Eng. 2018 ,150, 280–297. [CrossRef]
78. Jeong, S.; Kim, E.J.; Park, J.W.; Sim, S.H. Data fusion-based damage identification for a monopile offshore wind turbine structure
using wireless smart sensors. Ocean Eng. 2020 ,195, 106728. [CrossRef]
79. Cevasco, D.; Tautz-Weinert, J.; Smolka, U.; Kolios, A. Feasibility of machine learning algorithms for classifying damaged offshore
jacket structures using SCADA data. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2020 ,1669 , 012021. [CrossRef]
80. Masoumi, M. Machine learning solutions for offshore wind farms: A review of applications and impacts. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,
11, 1855. [CrossRef]
81. Gawali, M.B.; Gawali, S.S.; Patil, M. Fault prediction model in wind turbines using deep learning structure with enhanced
optimisation algorithm. J. Control Decis. 2023 , 1–18. [CrossRef]
82. Guo, J.X.; Ji, X.; Song, H.; Chang, S.; Liu, F.S. Unsupervised statistical estimation of offshore wind turbine vibration for structural
damage detection under varying environmental conditions. Eng. Struct. 2022 ,272, 115005. [CrossRef]
83. Yeter, B.; Garbatov, Y.; Soares, C.G. Life-extension classification of offshore wind assets using unsupervised machine learning.
Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2022 ,219, 108229. [CrossRef]
84. Lian, J.J.; Cai, O.; Dong, X.F.; Jiang, Q.; Zhao, Y. Health monitoring and safety evaluation of the offshore wind turbine structure:
A review and discussion of future development. Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494. [CrossRef]
85. Moynihan, B.; Mehrjoo, A.; Moaveni, B.; McAdam, R.; Rüdinger, F.; Hines, E. System identification and finite element model
updating of a 6 MW offshore wind turbine using vibrational response measurements. Renew. Energy 2023 ,219, 119430. [CrossRef]
86. Zhang, Z.M.; Sun, C.; Jahangiri, V . Structural damage identification of offshore wind turbines: A two-step strategy via FE model
updating. Struct. Control Health Monit. 2022 ,29, e2872. [CrossRef]
87. Liang, F.Y.; Jia, X.J.; Zhang, H.; Wang, C.; Shen, P .P . Seismic responses of offshore wind turbines based on a lumped parameter
model subjected to complex marine loads at scoured sites. Ocean Eng. 2024 ,297. [CrossRef]
88. Zheng, H.B.; Zhang, H.; Liang, F.Y.; Li, L. Numerical investigation on lateral monotonic and cyclic responses of scoured rigid
monopile based on an integrated bounding surface model. Comput. Geotech. 2024 ,166. [CrossRef]
89. Iliopoulos, A.; Shirzadeh, R.; Weijtjens, W.; Guillaume, P .; Van Hemelrijck, D.; Devriendt, C. A modal decomposition and
expansion approach for prediction of dynamic responses on a monopile offshore wind turbine using a limited number of
vibration sensors. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2016 ,68, 84–104. [CrossRef]
90. Yeter, B.; Garbatov, Y.; Soares, C.G. Review on artificial intelligence-aided life extension assessment of offshore wind support
structures. J. Mar. Sci. Appl. 2022 ,21, 26–54. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
