1 Prediction of wind turbine generator bearing failure through 
analysis of high frequency vibration data and the application of 
support vector machine algorithms  
A Turnbull *, J Carroll*, S Koukoura*, A McDonald*  
*Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Univer sity of Strathclyde, Glasgow, UK   
email: a.turnbull@strath.ac.uk   
 
Keywords: wind turbine, generator, failure, bearing, condition 
monitoring . 
Abstract  
 
Reducing wind turbine downtime through innovations 
surrounding asset management has the potential to g reatly 
influence the overall levelised cost of energy of large onshore 
and offshore developments. This research paper uses multiple 
examples of the same generator bearing failure to provide 
insight into how condition monitoring systems can be used in 
to train machine learning  algorithms with the ultimate goal of 
predicting failure and remaining useful life. Results show that 
by analysing high frequency vibration data and extracting key 
features to train support vector machine algorithm s, an 
accuracy of 67 % can be achieved in s uccessfully predicting 
failure 1 -2 months before occurrence. Th is paper reflects on 
the limitations surrounding a  generalised training approach , 
taking advantage of all available data , showing that if too many 
different examples are considered of different  wind turbines 
and operating conditions the overall accuracy  can be 
diminished .   
1 Introduction  
 
In order for wind energy to compete with traditional methods 
of generating electricity such as fossil fuels, the levelised cost 
of energy (LCOE) must be furth er reduced in the coming years. 
Costs associated with t he operation and maintenance (O &M) 
of a wind farm makes up a significant proportion of total 
lifetime costs. In fact, up to 30 % of the tota l energy cost can be 
spent on O &M for some large offshore deve lopments [1]. With 
wind farms moving into harsher environments further offshore, 
this value is only expected to increase in the futu re. As more 
money is spent on O &M, innovations surrounding asset 
management have the potential to greatly influence the over all 
LCOE. According to a study found in [2], innovations 
associated with operations, maintenance and service are 
anticipated to red uce the LCOE by approximately 2 % between 
2014 and 2025.  
One of the areas in which significant improvement can be made 
is thr ough the introduction of turbine condition -based 
maintenance [2]. By measuring vibrations throughout the 
nacelle, it is possible to gain insight into the dynamic performance of a particular system, and in turn identify any 
potential issues or faults. Generato r faults can contribute 
significantly to the overall downtime experienced by a wind 
farm due to component failure, with around 1 failure per year 
in state of the art offshore wind turbines [3,4,5].  
The resear ch presented in this paper draws upon synchroni sed 
databases of generator bearing vibration time series and failure 
events from a turbine OEM. This allows multiple vibration 
signal examples of the same failure mode at a number of time 
intervals leading up to failure to be analysed and compared. 
This ap proach provides insight into the key features which can 
be extracted  and to what extent examples differ , using these to 
train and test machine learning algorithms for future fault 
prognosis.  
2 Generator Bearing Failure  
Faults in the generator can be both mechanical or electrical  in 
nature , with the most common types of mechanical failure 
being due to mechanical looseness, misalignment and rotor 
imbalances within the system [6]. This investigation 
concentrates on a specific generator bearing failure, a 
mechanical looseness issue within the internal assembly.  
 
Mechanical faults all follow a similar path to failure regardless 
of the failure mode or root cause (see Figure 1). Once  a fault 
has been introduced in to the bearing the dynamic response of 
the sys tem will change. This means that vibration analysis can 
sometimes be used to detect faults months before component 
failure, which allows for longer periods of time for wind farm 
operators to take preventative measures. Once a component 
gets closer to failu re, excessive friction will be evident through 
oil debris analysis, before audible noise can detected either by 
ear or through acoustic emissions. The days leading up to 
failure heat and/or smoke will be detected indicating a serious 
incident could be immi nent [7].  
 
Root causes sometimes ste m from design and manufacturing 
issues such as imperfections in material grade, out of tolerances 
and improper installation methods. Other causes include 
operational and maintenance issues such as high loading, 
unbalanc ed electromagnetic forces, damage while in transit or 
inadequate cooling and inspection strategies [6]. It is believed 
that for the generator bearing failure identified in this research, 
raised bearing temperatures have led to bearing inner ring 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
2 growth res ulting in the bearing inner ring spinning on the 
generator rotor shaft at the drive end.  
 
Figure 1: Diagram showing methods of detecting fault indicators over 
time as fault progresses towards failure. Adapted from [7].  
 
3 Approach  
In order to track and compare the component ’s condition, 
vibration data was sought  at different points in time leading up 
to generator bearing failure. To achieve this, events associated 
with generator bearing failure from a wind turbine OEM were 
analysed unt il 10-20 examples of the same failure mode were 
identified. This was then cross checked with SCADA data to 
ensure dates of wind turbine downtime were correlated. To 
guarantee a fair comparison , all examples were from an 
identical generator and drivetrain configuration; a doubly fed 
induction generator (DFIG) with a rated power of between 2 -4 
MW. Each turbine utilised a variable speed, pitch regulated 
control strategy. Generator rotor speed at rated power was 
determined by grid frequency, where examples wer e found for 
both 50 and 60 Hz.  
 
Once the failure mode had been identified , the data gathered 
prior to occurrence was classified. Both a three and two class 
system were trialled, each divided into a number of categories 
based on health condition. Results fr om the two class system 
approach will be presented in this paper, which can be 
described as follows:  
 
 Class 1: healthy - at least 5 months before failure  
 Class 2: 1 -2 months before failure  
 
A total of 15 different wind turbines from eight wind farms 
were u sed in the study, in each of which the same failure mode 
was identified. Vibration data gathered consisted of at least six 
samples a week apart at 1 year, 5 -6 months and 1 -2 months 
before failure, with each turbine having data from at least two 
of the three c lasses. Each sample consisted of approximately 
10 seconds of data taken with a sampling frequency of approximately 25kHz at both the drive -end and non -drive end 
generator bearing (see Figure 2 for clarification).  
 
 
Figure 2: Diagr am showing rough accelerometer position used on 
generator bearings to measure vibration.  
 
 
Once features were successfully identified and verified, 
machine learning algorithms were then trained and tested, with 
the most accurate chosen and applied to the s et of features 
specific to the failure mode, classifying the condition 
according to whether it is healthy or not, and the time before 
failure. The algorithm was then tested against similar, unseen 
vibration data from wind turbines omitted from the training 
process.  The prognostic process was evaluated, using a 
confusion matrix giving correct/incorrect classification and the 
likelihood of false positives/ negatives.  
 
4 Vibration Analysis Techniques  
Most of the experience to draw upon to analyse vibration in 
generator s and other rotating machinery comes from industries 
which utilise large fixed speed  machines. Modern wind 
turbines employ variable speed control strategies and, along 
with the stochastic nature of the wind, produce load patterns 
that are far more varied t han traditional generators. The 
analysis of such vibration signals are therefore more complex 
and as such, makes diagnosing faults in wind turbine 
generators more difficult.  
 
 
4.1 Time domain  
 
The vibration signal can be analysed in a number of ways, the  
simplest of which is in the time domain. Basic statistical 
analysis techniques can provide important information about 
the signal and although it is not sufficient to actually diagnose 
faults it is certainly a useful method in which to detect any 
obvious irregularities. Table 1 shows the features that were 
extracted and used to analyse the signal.  
 
 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
3 Feature 
No. Feature  Formula  
1 Maximum  𝑥𝑚𝑎𝑥=max{x(t)} 
2 Minimum  𝑥𝑚𝑖𝑛=min{x(t)} 
 
3 Mean  
𝑢𝑥=1
𝑇∫x(t)𝑑𝑡𝑇
0 
4 RMS  
𝑢𝑟𝑚𝑠=[1
𝑇∫x2(t)𝑑𝑡𝑇
0]1/2
 
5 Standard 
Deviation  𝜎𝑥=[1
𝑇∫[𝑥(t)−𝑢𝑥]2𝑑𝑡𝑇
0]1/2
 
6 Kurtosis  
𝛽=1
𝑇∫[𝑥(t)−𝑢𝑥]4𝑑𝑡𝑇
0 
Table 1: Time -domain fe atures  
 
4.2 Frequency  domain  
 
The frequency domain is one of the  most commonly used 
method a to analyse vibration in rotating equipment. Fourier 
analysis is a technique widely used to convert an input signal 
in the time domain to an output in the  frequency domain using 
a fast F ourier transform (FFT) algorithm. The FFT algorithm 
samples a signal over a specific time period and divides it into 
its frequency components, with each sinusoidal component 
having a unique frequency with its own amplitude and phase. 
It is important to focus on the range of frequencies which are 
associated with the mechanical rotation of the generator shaft, 
which will allow any indicators of a fault to be detected. In 
general, this frequency range will be the mean generator shaft 
rotational frequency and associated harmonics.  
 
 
Figure 3: Expected harmonics and sub -harmonics introduced to the 
spectrum due to mechanical looseness within the internal generator 
assembly [6]  
 
Consider a FFT spectrum of a vibration signal measured from 
an accelerometer located at  a generator bearing with 
mechanical looseness in the internal assembly. Many 
harmonics are introduced into the spectrum due to the non -
linear response of the loose parts to the exciting forces from the 
rotor, with the largest amplitude occurring twice per rotation 
(or 2× the shaft frequency). Sub -harmonics are often also 
caused at frequencies in multiples of 1/2 or 1/3 times the shaft rpm (see Figure 3) [6]. The features extracted in the frequency 
domain are sh own in Table 2.  
 
 
Feature 
No. Feature  Description  
1 1P Amplitude  Amplitude of peak closest to 
mean shaft rotation  
2 2P Amplitude  Amplitude of peak closest to 
two times mean shaft 
rotation  
3 1P Energy  
 Energy in signal surrounding 
1P 
4 2P Energy  Energy in signal surrounding 
2P 
Table 2: Frequency -domain features  
 
 
4.3 Order  domain  
 
During each vibration sample the generator shaft speed varies, 
often significantly, meaning that the signal is not stationary. 
This produces a smearin g effect on the FFT spectrum 
somewhat proportional to the range of shaft speeds 
experienced over the sample. One option available to try and 
negate these effects and gain a clearer picture of the signal is 
to perform order analysis. This is a resampling te chnique which 
takes a signal from the time domain, of constant sample rate at 
variable rotational speed, to the order domain, of variable 
sample rate at constant rotational speed.  
 
Instead of frequency being represented along the x -axis (as 
with the FFT s pectrum), the order domain uses order numbers, 
where the first order is a reference shaft speed. The order power 
spectrum is computed using a short -time Fourier transform of 
the resampled signal. Table 3 shows the features extracted from 
the order domain.  
 
Feature 
No. Feature  Description  
1 1st order 
amplitude  Amplitude of peak at order 
number 1  
2 2nd order 
amplitude  Amplitude of peak at order 
number 2  
Table 3: Order -domain features  
 
5 Application of Fourier Analysis  
The FFT single -sided power spectrum is a commonly used way 
in which to represent the signal in the frequency domain. By 
looking at various examples it becomes apparent that even with 
identical drivetrain configurations, spect ra can change 
significantly between wind turb ines. There are a considerable 
number of factors which will determine the outcome of the 
spectrum, however by making direct comparisons, an attempt 
can be made to highlight which components make the most 
significant contribution. This will provide a basis to better 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
4 understand which features can be extracted and more generally 
applied across any wind turbine . 
 
 
Figure 4: Comparison of FFT spectra: same turbine, same health 
classification, similar operating points. Overlaid with frequ encies of 
expected amplitude gains due to fault for clarity.  
 
5.1 Comparison of similar operating conditions in the same 
wind turbine  
 
The simplest comparison between spectra that can be made is 
by considering two different vibration samples of a single wi nd 
turbine when exposed to similar operating conditions within 
the same health classification. Figure 4 shows samples taken a 
week apart at similar wind speeds.  
 
The first obvious observation is that the spec tra are very similar 
in both peak amplitude and noise levels. The peak of the lower 
spectrum at 2 × the rotational speed of the shaft is slightly lower 
and spread out, which can be attributed to higher variation in 
generator speed throughout the sample.  
 
 
5.2 Comparison of different operating conditions in the 
same wind turbine  
 
To show the influen ce that operating conditions have  on the 
power spectrum, consider the same wind turbine (in the same 
health classification) but this time operating under significantly  
different external conditions. The first working in  a region well 
below rated wind speed  and the other considerably abov e. This 
comparison is shown in F igure 5.  
 
The first notable observation is that the vibration signal 
measured when the turbine was operating above rated power 
has considerably more noise prese nt. It also has a much lower 
and broader peak at 2 × the rotational speed of the generator. 
This can be partly attributed to large variation in rpm of the 
high speed shaft. It is clear however that the energy contained 
in the signal surrounding this frequen cy is greater, meaning the 
peak in itself is not sufficient to determine if a fault is present.   
Figure 5: Comparison of FFT spectra: same turbine, same health 
classification, different operating points. Below rated operating 
cond itions (above) and above rated operating conditions (below). 
Overlaid with frequencies of expected amplitude gains due to fault for 
clarity.  
 
5.3 Comparison of different wind turbines in similar 
operating conditions.  
 
Even with identical drivetrain configu ration and performance 
specifications, the FFT power spectrum can change 
significantly between turbines. Figure 6 shows four examples, 
each taken from turbines with healthy generators in similar 
operating conditions. It should be noted that these turbines 
differ in design when it comes to the power output frequency, 
which would be 50Hz or 60Hz depending on the wind farm 
location globally. This will shift the operational speed of the 
high speed generator shaft, therefore shifting the frequency of 
any associa ted peaks in the FFT spectrum. It is clear that there 
is little coherence with regards to peak amplitude between 
turbines. This change in dynamics could be due to a range of 
factors: the manufacture and assembly of the drivetrain and 
wider structure, diffe rences in fatigue and ageing of 
components due to structural and thermal loads, corrosion, 
faults and replacements elsewhere in the assembly, different 
wind profiles (shear and turbulence intensity) at a particular 
site, or even weather conditions at the t ime of measuring the 
vibration sample. Whatever the reasons, it is obvious that 
feature ranges or limits cannot be assumed equal for all 
turbines.  
 
Figure 6: Comparison of FFT spectra: different turbines, same health 
classificatio n, similar operating points.  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
5 5.4 Comparison of spectra using the same turbine leading 
up to failure.  
 
In order to determine whether features change as a generator 
bearing fault develops in a drivetrain, the FFT spectrum can be 
compared over time leading up  to failure. Section 4 explains 
what should change in theory by introducing a fault associated 
with mechanical looseness, and by looking at multiple 
examples a sense of which features are actually observable in 
real wind turbine applications can be gained.  Finding out to 
what extent these features are measurable (and in what time 
frame leading up to failure) is a useful exercise. Figure 7 shows 
examples of spectra for a wind turbine, with each classification 
presented leading up to failure.  
 
The largest inc rease in amplitude occurs at approximately 
58Hz (or 2 × the rotational speed of the shaft), which is 
expected for a fault of this nature. It should be noted that the 
FFT amplitude in this example 1 -2 months before failure is still 
lower than one of the heal thy examples above, further proving 
that the dynamics are not the same for all turbines, even if 
identical machines.  
 
The other expected gains in amplitude occur at shaft speed, and 
sub-harmonics at frequencies in multiples of 1/2 or 1/3 times 
the shaft r pm. In practise these gains are very hard to measure, 
and often not detectable.  
 
 
 
Figure 7: Comparison of FFT spectra: same turbine, different health 
classification leading up to failure.  
6 Application of Order  Analysis  
Figure 8 shows the same example used in F igure 7, but this 
time in the order domain as opposed to the frequency domain. 
When computing the frequency -RPM map it is important that 
a sensible resolution bandwidth is chosen to capture all the 
desired features of the si gnal therefore losing as little 
information as possible .  
 
By applying order analysis techniques, the peaks at both 1x and 
2× the shaft speed align, allowing for more clarity in the 
amplitude measurement. As the fault worsens and moves 
closer to absolute f ailure, the amplitude at 2 × the shaft speed 
shows the most noticeable gain.  
  
Figure 8: Comparison of order spectra: same turbine, different health 
classification leading up to failure.  
7 Applic ation of Support Vector Machine 
Algo rithms  using Supervised Learning  
Support vector machines (SVM)  are adaptable algorithms 
widely used for both classification and regression problems. 
They work by plotting each data point in n -dimensional space, 
with n being the number of features used to t rain the model. 
Classification is achieved by finding the hyper -plane that 
differentiates the classes of coordinates (also known as support 
vectors) . A simple example is shown in F igure 9. The margin 
is a measure of the distance between the hyper -plane and  
nearest support vector of each classification. A large margin 
indicates that the support vector machine is stable and will be 
less susceptible to misclassifying data [8].   
 
 
Figure 9: Example of how support vector machines class ify data.  
 
There are two main stages when applying machine learning to 
vibration data for classification; a training phase followed by a 
validation phase. This process was repeated with different 
permutations of features to discover which could best be use d 
to produce the greatest overall accuracy.  
 
For each classified vibration sample leading up to fai lure the 
features described in T ables 1 -3 were extracted and used to 
create unique co -ordinates, or support vectors. Additional 
features including mean shaft  torque and wind speed were also 
used to describe the operating point at which the sample was 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
6 taken. Using a two class system, a total of 306 support vectors 
were established consisting of 204 in class A (healthy) and 102 
in class B (1 -2 months before fail ure). To ensure the algorithm 
is trained in a balanced manner, 100 random co -ordinates were 
chosen from each class.  
 
Cross -validation was used to determine the overall accuracy of 
the algorithm. This method involves partitioning the data into 
subsets of a predetermined ratio, one of which is then omitted 
from training and used to test the algorithm. For this example, 
20% of the data was used for validation purposes. The process 
is then repeated using different sup -populations and an average 
error calculated  to use as a performance indicator.  
8 Results  
The accuracy of algorithm will depend on the random set of 
data which was taken for training and validation. By repeating 
this process, a mean accuracy can be determined along with 
associated standard deviation  (see F igure 10) . This will give a 
good indicat ion of how sensitive and robust the algorithm is to 
the data used. A confusion matrix can be use ful to visualise the  
algorithm accuracy by representing the true class and predicted 
class of each support vector , as shown in F igure 11 .  
 
 
Figure 10: Mean accuracy and standard deviation of algorithm 
variations using 7 random datasets.  
 
 
Figure 11: Example confusion matrix using  all features from a random 
set of training  variables  with 5 -fold cross validation.  
9  Conclusion  
Predictive maintenance strategies that use previous failures to 
learn and predict failure and remaining useful life of different 
wind turbines have the potential to make substantial sav ings to 
costs associated with O &M. This research indicates t hat 
machine learning algorithms can be applied to specific features to successfully predict generator bearing failure 1 -2 months 
before occurrence  with an overall accuracy of 67 %. The 
example shown in S ection 8 finds a balance between false -
positives and f alse-negatives. From commercial perspective 
however, it may be worth refining the model to either minimise 
or maximise false -positives, which could be further explored 
through cost -benefit analysis.  
 
Although t he res ults shown in this paper seem reasonable , the 
accuracy is not great enough to effectively  aid decision 
making. To further increase the accuracy beyond 70 %, this 
genera lised approach (training the model from any data within 
each health class) will need to be revised. Section 5 shows the 
differences which can occur in FFT spect ra for different 
turbines, environmental conditions and operating points. A 
more specific traini ng regime using sub -populations of data 
based on these factors could be one way to try and improve 
accuracy. In this case the methodology shown in this report 
could act as a starting point from with to refine as more 
information is learned about a specific  wind turbine.   
Acknowledgements  
This work has been funded by the EPSRC, project reference 
number EP/L016680/1.   
References  
[1]  C. Crabtree, D. Zappala, S. Hogg, Wind Energy: Uk 
experiences and offshore operational challenges, Power 
and Energy 2015, Vol. 229(7) 727746 IMechE 2015  
[2]  Bruce Valpy , Philip English , Future renewa ble energy 
costs: offshore wind, KIC InnoEnergy, 2014  
[3]  F. Spinato, P. J. Tavner, G.J.W van B ussel and E. 
Koutoulakos, Reliability of wind turbine subassemblies, 
IET Renew. Power Generation, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 1 –15, 
Sep. 2009.  
[4]  James Carroll, Alasdair McDonald, David McMillan, 
Reliability study of wind turbines  with DFIG and PMG 
drivetrains  
[5]  M. Wilkinson, K. Harman, F. Spinato, B. Hendriks, and 
T. Van Delft, Measuring Wind Turbine Reliability - 
Results of th e Reliawind Project , in Proc. Eur. Wind 
Energy Conf., Brussels, Belgium, Mar. 14 –17, 2011.  
[6]  P. Girdhar and C. Scheffer, Practical Machinery 
Vibration Analysis and Predictive Maintenance,  
Burlington, MA: Newnes, 2004.  
[7]  Pierre Tchakoua, etal, Wind Tu rbine Condition 
Monitoring: State -of-the-Art Review, New  Trends, and 
Future Challenges , Energies 2014, 7, 2595 -2630; 
doi:10.3390/en7042595  
[8]  Chunfeng Liu, Leizhen Wang, Aimin Yang, etal, 
Information Compu ting and Applications, Support 
Vector Machine Cla ssificatio n Algorithm and Its 
Application , Springer, Third International Conference, 
ICICA 2012 Chengde, China, September 14 -16, 2012 
Proceedings, Part II  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
