 
A Hybrid Feature Selection  and Construc tion Method for Detection of 
Wind Turbine Generator Heating Fault s 
 
Ayse Gokcen Kavaz  
Huawei Turkey R&D Center  
ayse.gokcen.taskiner@huawei.com  Burak Barutcu  
Istanbul Technical University, Energy Institute  
barutcub@itu.edu.tr  
 
Abstract   
Preprocessing of information is an essential step for the effective design of machine learning applications. Feature 
construction and selection are powerful techniques used for this aim. In this paper, a feature selection and 
construction approach is prese nted for the detection of wind turbine generator heating faults. D ata were collected 
from Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system of a  wind turbin e. The original features directly 
collected from the data collection system consist  of wind ch aracteristics, operational data, temperature 
measurements and status information . In addition to the se original features, new features were created in the 
feature construction step to obtain information that can be more powerful indications of the faults. After the 
construction of new features, a hybrid feature selection technique was implemented to find out the most relevant 
features in the overall set to increase the classification accuracy and decrease the computational burden. Feature 
selection step con sists of  filter and wrapper -based  parts . Filter based feature selection was applied to exclude the 
features which are non -discriminative and wrapper -based method  was used to determine  the final features 
considering the redundancies and mutual relations amongst them . Artificial Neural Networks were used  both in 
the detection phase and as the induction algorithm of the wrapper -based feature selection part. The results show 
that, the proposed approach contributes to the fault detection system to be mor e reliable especially in terms of 
reducing the number of false  fault alarms.   
Keywords:  Feature selection, feature construction, artificial neural networks, machine learning , wind turbine, 
fault detection  
1. Introduction  
Condition monitoring  and fault detection are amongst 
the significant topics in wind turbine research. As the 
size and number of wind turbines continue to grow in 
line with the global renewable energy targets, fault 
detection of wind turbines became even more  
important. Faults generally lead to downtimes in wind 
turbine operation and result in a decrease in the amount 
of energy conversion. Moreover, unpredicted faults can 
have detrimental effects on other parts of wind turbines 
which contribute to decrease in lifetime of overal l 
system. Therefore, early detection and isolation of wind 
turbine faults are required .  
Fault detection approaches can be investigated  in two 
main classes which are model -based and data driven 
methods. In model -based fault detection, an explicit mathematical model of system is generated  and outputs 
of the real system are evaluated comparing to  responses 
of the mathematical model.  Model-based methods have 
the advantage of not requiring high frequency data, 
however their performance  highly  depends on the 
accuracy of the mathematical model which is difficult 
to build in real world applications  and the model -based 
applications have a limited capability in  supplying the 
details  about wind turbine faults  [1]. Data-driven 
methods  are based on the analysis of measurements 
collected from the corresponding  system.  In the early 
data driven fault detection studies , multivariate 
statistics were widely used. With the advancements of 
intelligent algorithms, machine learning methods  
became more  widespread . Collection of wind turbine 
data for fault detection can be done in  various ways . 
First of them is to collect data from specifically 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
 2  
 mounted sensors  [2]–[6]. As these sensors are mounted 
for condition monitoring and fault detection aims, 
useful high f requency data can be obtained. However, 
this approach brings additional costs . The other 
alternative is to use data from Supervisory Control and 
Data Acquisition (SCADA) system  [7]–[12]. The main 
advantage of this alternative is that SCADA is a built -in 
part of most modern wind turbines. Therefore, 
additional hardware costs are not required.  However, 
SCADA systems were not initially built for fault 
detection aims , so there are imperfect ions in data  such 
as high proportion of missing values. Moreover, the 
data output interval of wind turbine SCADA systems is 
generally 10 min . This low output rate  results in the 
loss of high frequency data which is very useful in fault 
detection studies. To reduce the disadvantages of using  
SCADA data, intelligent data processing approaches 
are required. In this paper, a data -driven method using 
SCADA data was reali zed by implementing feature 
selection techniques along with Artificial Neural 
Networks (ANN) . 
SCADA data set consists of many measurements such 
as wind turbine operation,  wind speed characteristics, 
temperature values and fault information . In addition to 
these directly collected data , a feature construction step 
was conducted  to have more indica tions  on incipient 
faults . By this way, the number of the input features 
increased even further.  Feature selection is to identify a 
subset of relevant features from the overall feature set 
which is a compulsory process in machine learning 
applications invo lving moderate and high number of 
input features  [13]–[19]. It brings many advantages 
such as preventing overfitting  that can be caused by 
large number of features, reducing computational 
burden and training time,  increasing accuracy of model. 
Feature selection process  can be employed by different 
approaches  namely filter, wrapper and embedded 
techniques. Filter approaches evaluate features without 
utilizing any classification algorithm . They rank 
features independently based on a selected criteria [13], 
[20]. Wrapper  methods select and eval uate a subset of 
features  together and search for the best subset 
describing the model  [21]. In embedded approaches , 
the selection is a part of the learning process [22]. In 
this paper , a hybrid feature selection method was 
employed. In the first step, various filter methods were  
applied to find out and exclude the features that are 
non-discriminant . The remaining features which are informative on faults were evaluated in a wrapper -
based approach to get the knowledge about mutual 
relations or additional redundancies. By combining 
these two approaches, it was aimed to benefit from the 
advantages of bot h. Filter methods are practical in large 
data sets in terms of training time and complexity. 
However, they are not able to evaluate mutual 
dependencies between features. Therefore, after using 
the filter approach as a pre -processing step, wrapper 
method was  employed to eliminate redundancies and 
find subset s based on evaluat ing mutual relations.  
The type of wind turbine faults observed in this paper 
are generator heating faults. They are  non-fatal but 
frequently occurring wind turbine faults. The se type of 
faults  show less indications than fatal faults but are one 
of the important reasons of long downtime durations. 
The success of detecting frequent/n on-fatal faults are 
required to be increased especially in terms on reducing 
false alarms  [23]–[25].  
The layout of this paper is as follows ; in Section 2, the 
data were described in detail. In Section 3, the hybrid 
feature selection method was presented. In Section 4 
results were presented and in Section 5  conclusion was 
given, respectively.  
2. Data Description  
The data used in this study were collected from a  three -
bladed horizontal axis wind turbine with a rated power 
of 900 kW. They were collected from  01.01.2105 to 
31.12.2015. Original and generated features are 
described in this section.  
2.1 Collected data  
Original features are the measurements and information 
directly collected by the data collection system . Wind, 
temperature, operational and status data are the original 
features of this system.  First three types of them have a 
10 min sampling period , where as a new status data is 
produced when the status of the turbine changes. This 
situation results in a difference in the number of 
samples . To match the status data with other types of 
information, a status label was generated for each 10 
min time instance . 
  Wind Data:  Wind speed measurements consist of  
minimum, maximum and average  values for each 10 -
min interval.  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
 3  
   Temperature Data:  There are 9 temperature sensors 
mounted on different parts of the turbine . Locations of 
temperature sensors are presented in Table 1.  
Table 1. Temperature sensors.  
Location of Temperature Sensors  
Generator stator  
Generator rotor  
Nacelle  
Front hub bearing  
Rear hub bearing  
Nacelle control cabinet  
Control cabinet  
Tower  
Transformer  
 
  Operational Data:  SCADA systems supply various 
operational data to monitor wind turbine operations 
continuously. The available operational data for this 
case are presented in  Table 2.  
Table 2. Operational data .  
Operational Data  
Rotation speed  Min, Average, Max  
Power output  Min, Average, Max  
Energy output  Total, Diff 
Nacelle position  Average  
 
  Status Data : Last type of data collected by SCADA 
system provide  information on the status of the system . 
Fault  occur rences , maintenance  actions  and general 
information about  turbine are included in the status 
data.  
2.2 Generated Data  
Besides the directly collected data, many additional 
features were generated with the aim of supplying  
inputs  that carry information on incipient faults  to 
improve the success of the fault detection system . The  
generated data  consist of  difference data, time series 
data, statistical  data and knowledge -based data.   
Difference data:  The d ifferences between the 
temperature measurements, operational data and  wind 
speed measurements which may provide information 
on fault formations were calculated. For example, the 
differences between minimum, mean and maximum 
rotor powers, wind speeds, produced power  values  and 
the difference between temperature of generator rotor and generator stator are amongst these generated data. 
The total number of features generated by this wa y is 
17.  
Time series  data:  From 10 min to 60 min time delayed 
values  of original features were generated  to analyze 
time series characteristics. The number of time series 
features is 132.  
Statistical data:  Moving mean, standard variation and 
median values of original features up to 60 min were 
generated. 198 additional features were generated by 
this way.  
Knowledge -based  data:  Based on the knowledge on 
wind turbine conversion systems, additional features 
were generated. The available power values were 
calculated using minimum, mean and maximum wind 
speed values for each interval. Also, the ratio of these 
values to the minimum, maximum and mean generated 
power were calculated. Sinusoidal components of 
nacelle position are also amongst the knowledge -based 
data.  
By gathering the constructed features with the original 
features, a data set with 377 features was obtained. 22 
of them are original features and the remaining 355 are 
generated features. The feature selection methodology 
is explained in the following part.  
3. Feature Selection  
3.1 Filter based feature selection  
Filter approaches aim to rank features from the data 
alone [26]. Figure 1 presents the scheme of  feature 
selection by filter methods. Using the training data, 
they determine which features are more relevant to the 
output of the .  
Four filter -based feature selection methods were 
attempted in the initial simulations. They are Fisher 
Score  [27], [28] , Relief  algorithm  [29], Mutual 
information  [30] and correlation -based feature selection  
[31]. The initial simulations  show ed that Fisher score 
and Relief methods had supplied effective  results . 
Therefore,  the detailed subset selection had been  
conducted  using the results based on these two 
techniques.  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
 4  
 
 
Figure 1. Filter based feature selection.  
 
3.1.1 Fisher Score  
Fisher method computes a score for each feature by 
calculating the ratio of the distance between data points 
in different classes to the distance between data points 
in same classes . The Fisher score of the ith feature is 
calculated as given in Equations 1 -2;  
 
 (1) 
 
 (2) 
Where , 
 is the size of the 
 class, 
  
 and 
  
are the mean and standard deviation of  the 
  
feature when considering the samples of the 
class. 
  and 
  are the mean and standard 
deviation of the whole data set corresponding to the 
 feature. A higher Fisher score means that the 
informative value of the corresponding feature is also 
higher.  
3.1.1 Relief  Algorithm  
Relief method [29] uses an Euclidian distance metric 
and nearest neigh bor technique to rank the feature s 
based on their discriminative capabilities. It randomly 
selects instance s from the training set and calculate s a 
score based on the  Equation 3. 
 (3) 
Where, 
  is the value of feature i in the instance t.  M 
is the number of the instances randomly selected from 
the data.  
  are the nearest sample  from the same 
class (‘nearest hit’)  and 
  are the nearest sample  
from the opposite class (‘nearest miss’)  and  
  is the 
distance measurement.  The algorithm  calculates the 
discriminative success of each feature with respect to whether  the feature differentiates two instances from 
the same class which is an undesired property and 
whether it differentiates two instances from opposite 
class which is a desired property [13].  
3.2 Wrapper Method and Sequential Backward 
Floating Search  
After selecting the most relevant features by the filter 
methods, a wrapper -based evaluation was employed to 
benefit from the advantages of both methods . Figure 2 
shows wrapper feature selection principle. Various  
search algorithms can be used to decide the subsets to 
be used in wrapper models. Common search algorithms 
can be classified as exponential, sequential and 
randomized algorithms  [32]. In exponential algorithms, 
number of subsets increases exponentially with the 
number of elements in the feature space. For example,  
exhaustive search  is a kind of exponential search 
algorithms  where all possible subsets of the feature 
space are used in the wrapper models to find the best 
combination, however even after the reduction of 
feature number by filter methods it is still 
computationally expensive in this case. Sequential 
search algorit hms add or remove features sequentially . 
Sequential Forward Search , Sequential Backward 
Search, Sequential Floating Search  Algorithms are 
amongst the main sequential search methods  [33]. 
Randomized algorithms try to find optimum subsets by 
the use of randomness in th eir approach.  
As a set of relevant features were obtained in the first 
part of this research , the remaining number of feature s 
became relatively smaller so the use of sequential 
search is appropriate to remove redundancies , evaluate 
mutual relations and increase the accuracy of the 
system. Sequential Backward Floating Search (SB FS) 
was selected for this aim.  SBFS is a top down search 
procedure where the initial set starts by the whole  
feature  set. The least significant feature is excluded in 
each step  which is followed by conditional inclusions 
[33]. The search continues as long as the resulting 
subsets are better than the previously evaluated ones at 
that level . 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
 5  
 
 
Figure 2. Wrapper based feature selection.  
 
ANN  models  were implemented  both as the inducti on 
algorithm of the wrapper model and as the final 
decision model. Mathematical foundations of ANNs  
can be found in [34]. The types of ANNs used are 
multilayer Multi -Layer Feed -Forward Neural Networks 
(MFFNN ) wher e information flows from inputs to 
outputs without feedback connections and errors 
propagate from outputs to inputs. The ANN 
architectures  consist of  one input, one hidden and one 
output layer. The number of neurons in the hidden layer 
were changed from 2 to 15 to find architecture s with 
high performance . Also, various activation functions 
were tried in the scope of this work.  To prevent the 
algorithm from local minimums, multiple trials with 
random initial weights were held for each architecture.   
3.4 Perf ormance Metrics  
The main performance metrics for classification 
problems can be listed as accuracy, specificity, recall, 
precision and f -score.  Mathematical expressions of 
these metrics are presented in Equations  4-8. 
 
 (4) 
 
 (5) 
 
 (6) 
 
 (7) 
 
 (8) 
 
Where,  
 is the  true positives; number of correctly 
classified fault instances, 
  is the  true negatives; 
number of correctly classified normal instances, 
  is 
the false positives; normal instances incorrectly 
predicted as fault instances  and 
  is the false negatives; fault instances incorrectly classified  as 
normal instances.  
The case observed in this paper is a two -class 
classification problem  where the output can either 
belong to the normal or the faulty class . Due to the 
natural characterist ics of fault detection systems , there 
is a significant imbalance ratio which means number of 
the elements in the majority  class is much higher than  
the elements in the  minority  class. In our data set , there 
are 223 instances where the status of the turbine shows 
a generator heating fault, whereas there are more than 
50000 normal operation instances without generator 
heating faults . In such cases, accuracy and specificity 
might not be appropriate performance metr ics as the 
nature of the application needs a high rate of correctly 
classified minority class samples [35]. However , even 
if there are no correctly classified fault instances, the 
accuracy and the specificity would still be high due to 
the high number of correctly classified normal 
instances. Because of thi s reason, recall, precision and 
f-score which is the harmonic mean of the former two 
were used as they supply information on the success of 
the models .  
4. Resul ts and D iscussions  
To evaluate the feature construction and hybrid feature 
selection method proposed in this paper, a comparative 
analysis was conducted. Generator heating faults were 
attempted to be detected in two different ways. Firstly, 
the method presented in this paper  was used. For the 
second case, a heuristic feature construction and 
selection method mainly by using the original features 
and some additional features constructed by expert 
knowledge was used. The constructed features in the 
heuristic case include the kn owledge -based features, 
differences, moving variance and moving mean values 
belong to the generator temperature sensors. In order to 
improve the performance of the model as much as 
possible, a backward floating search amongst these 
features was also applie d in the heuristic case. All the 
analyses were performed in MATLAB environment.  
Table 3 presents the most informative features 
determined by the proposed and h euristic methods. As 
can be seen from the table, when the proposed 
approach is used, only 2 of the resulting features are 
amongst the original features which are the maximum 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
 6  
 power output and the minimum wind speed. Whereas 
rest of them are the constructed features.  
Table 3. Selected features by the proposed and 
heuristic methods . 
Heuristic Method  
Minimum wind speed  
Mean wind speed  
Minimum rotor speed * 
Mean rotor speed  
Minimum power output  
Maximum power output * 
Generator rotor temperature  
Generator stator temperature  
60-min moving variance of gen. stator  temperature  
60-min moving variance of gen. rotor temperature  
Proposed  Method  
Gen. stator  temperature  – Gen.  rotor  temperature  
Gen. rotor  temperature  – Transformer  temperature  
Gen. rotor  temperature  – Nacelle temp erature  
60-min median of m ax power  output  
30-min median of max power  output  
Max power  output*  
30-min median of max power  output  
60-min mean of max power output  
Minimum rotor speed * 
Max available power from wind  
*Mutual features selected by two methods.  
The selected features and the results belong to two 
different cases show the proposed method’s effective 
handling of mutual relations between features. The 
most important feature that was found by the proposed  
method is the difference between the generator stator 
temperature and the generator rotor temperature. This 
feature was also tried in the heuristic approach. 
However, in that case instead of increasing the 
classification performance, it has even reduced it. T his 
situation shows that this feature is very informative 
only when it is used along with the other features 
obtained by the hybrid approach.  
By using the resulting features obtained in two 
methods, ANNs were trained. 70% of the data were 
used in the trai ning phase and rest of the data were used 
in the test phase. Various ANNs were trained as by 
changing the activation functions, number of hidden 
neurons and initial weights. The results show that the proposed approach effectively improves the 
performance o f the fault detection algorithm . Figure 3 
show s the values  of recall, precision and f1 
performance metrics for the most successful networks  
in both approaches.  Best balanced score s were taken 
into consideration . Accuracy and specific ity scores are 
greater than 0.98 in both cases, however they are not 
discriminative metrics  in this problem  due to the high 
imbalance ratio of fault and no -fault classes .  
 
Figure 3. Performance metrics for  a) proposed b)  
heuris tic methods . 
As it is seen in Figure 3, the proposed method is 
effective on improving the success of the detection. 
There is a slight increase in the recall score which is 
0.83 in the heuristic case and 0.85 in the proposed 
method. A significant improvement was observed in 
the precision score w hich increased from 0.75 to 0.96. 
This result mostly  arose from the decrease in the 
number of false positives which express the number of 
normal instances incorrectly classified as fault 
instances. In this problem, the decrease in the false 
positives means  there are less false fault alarms when 
the classification is performed by the proposed method. 
In the approximately 3 months of test period, false fault 
alarm duration obtained in the heuristic method was 
210 min whereas it was 30 min in the proposed meth od. 
As a result, this work contributes to the solution of one 
of the main challenges of wind turbine fault detection 
using SCADA data.  
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
 7  
 5. Conclusion  
An intelligent method for improving the fault detection 
performance in wind turbines is proposed in this paper. 
The algorithm is comprised of two main parts, a feature 
construction step and a feature selection step. In the 
feature construction part, in add ition to the original 
features directly collected from SCADA system, 
various features were generated with the aim of 
providing stronger fault indications. In the feature 
selection part, filter and wrapper methods were 
implemented in a hybrid manner. To bet ter analyze the 
results obtained by the proposed method, a heuristic 
feature selection was also implemented to the same 
problem.  
A major advantage of this work is that it helps better 
use of SCADA data in wind turbines. As these kind s of 
non-fatal errors s how less indications , it is a 
challenging task to detect them only from the SCADA 
system  which was not initially developed for fault 
detection  purposes . Moreover, further difficulties were 
present in this work due to the absence of some types of 
data which are commonly obtainable in many SCADA 
systems. One of the biggest problems from the fault 
detection attempts from SCADA data is high number  of 
false alarm rates. The methods proposed in this paper 
reduced false alarm rates significantly from 210 to 30 
minutes. They were effective both in increasing the 
recall and precision metrics which are the informative 
factors for highly imbalanced datase ts. For future 
works, generalization of these results to a larger dataset 
can be focused on.  
This cost -effective approach would be instrumental in 
the design of AI based condition monitoring systems 
for wind energy industry which is gaining increasing 
importan ce due to the increasing global demands from 
the sustainable energy systems.  
References  
[1] W. Qiao and D. Lu, “A Survey on Wind 
Turbine Condition Monitoring and Fault 
Diagnosis - Part II: Signals and Sign al 
Processing Methods,” IEEE Trans. Ind. 
Electron. , vol. 62, no. 10, pp. 6546 –6557, 2015.  
[2] A. Abouhnik and A. Albarbar, “Wind turbine 
blades condition assessment based on vibration 
measurements and the level of an empirically 
decomposed feature,” Energy  Convers. Manag. , vol. 64, pp. 606 –613, 2012.  
[3] Y. Qu, E. Bechhoefer, D. He, and J. Zhu, “A 
New Acoustic Emission Sensor Based Gear 
Fault Detection Approach,” Int. J. Progn. Heal. 
Manag. , vol. 4, pp. 1 –14, 2013.  
[4] O. M. Bouzid, G. Y. Tian, K. Cumanan, and D. 
Moore, “Structural Health Monitoring of Wind 
Turbine Blades : Acoustic Source Localization 
Using Wireless Sensor Networks,” J. Sensors , 
vol. 2015, p. 11, 2014.  
[5] M. Moradi and S. Sivoththaman, “MEMS 
multisensor intelligent damage detection for 
wind turbines,” IEEE Sens. J. , vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 
1437 –1444, 2015.  
[6] A. Coscetta et al. , “Wind Turbine Blade 
Monitoring with Brillouin -Based Fiber -Optic 
Sensors,” J. Sensors , vol. 2017, 2017.  
[7] M. Schlechtingen, I. F. Santos, and S. Achiche, 
“Wind turbin e condition monitoring based on 
SCADA data using normal behavior models. 
Part 1: System description,” Appl. Soft Comput. , 
vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 259 –270, 2013.  
[8] W. Yang, R. Court, and J. Jiang, “Wind turbine 
condition monitoring by the approach of 
SCADA da ta analysis,” Renew. Energy , vol. 53, 
pp. 365 –376, 2013.  
[9] K. Leahy, R. L. Hu, I. C. Konstantakopoulos, C. 
J. Spanos, and A. M. Agogino, “Diagnosing 
wind turbine faults using machine learning 
techniques applied to operational data,” 2016 
IEEE Int. Conf. Progn. Heal. Manag. , pp. 1 –8, 
2016.  
[10] Y. Zhao, D. Li, A. Dong, J. Lin, D. Kang, and 
L. Shang, “Fault prognosis of wind turbine 
generator using SCADA data,” NAPS 2016 - 
48th North Am. Power Symp. Proc. , pp. 0 –5, 
2016.  
[11] P. B. Dao, W. J. Staszewski, T.  Barszcz, and T. 
Uhl, “Condition monitoring and fault detection 
in wind turbines based on cointegration analysis 
of SCADA data,” Renew. Energy , pp. 1 –16, 
2017.  
[12] F. Castellani, D. Astolfi, P. Sdringola, S. 
Proietti, and L. Terzi, “Analyzing wind turbine  
directional behavior: SCADA data mining 
techniques for efficiency and power 
assessment,” Appl. Energy , vol. 185, pp. 1076 –
1086, 2017.  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
 8  
 [13] H. Liu, “Computational Methods of Feature 
Selection,” Chapman&Hall , 2007.  
[14] Y. Li and X. Zeng , “Sequential multi -criteria 
feature selection algorithm based on agent 
genetic algorithm,” Appl. Intell. , vol. 33, no. 2, 
pp. 117 –131, 2010.  
[15] G. Roffo, S. Melzi, and M. Cristani, “Infinite 
feature selection,” Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. 
Comput. Vis. , vol. 2 015 Inter, pp. 4202 –4210, 
2015.  
[16] G. Roffo and S. Melzi, “Online Feature 
Selection for Visual Tracking,” Bmvc , 2016.  
[17] Y. Wang, L. Feng, and Y. Li, “Two -step based 
feature selection method for filtering redundant 
information,” J. Intell. Fuzzy Syst. , vol. 33, no. 
4, pp. 2059 –2073, 2017.  
[18] Y. Xue, L. Zhang, B. Wang, Z. Zhang, and F. 
Li, “Nonlinear feature selection using Gaussian 
kernel SVM -RFE for fault diagnosis,” Appl. 
Intell. , pp. 1 –26, 2018.  
[19] X. Huang, L. Zhang, B. Wang, F. Li, and Z. 
Zhang , “Feature clustering based support vector 
machine recursive feature elimination for gene 
selection,” Appl. Intell. , vol. 48, no. 3, pp. 594 –
607, 2018.  
[20] J. Tang, S. Alelyani, and H. Liu, “Feature 
Selection for Classification: A Review,” Data 
Classif. A lgorithms Appl. , pp. 37 –64, 2014.  
[21] R. Kohavi and G. H. John, “Wrappers for 
feature subset selection,” Artif. Intell. , vol. 97, 
no. 1 –2, pp. 273 –324, 1997.  
[22] M. Dash and H. Liu, “Feature Selection for 
Classification,” IDA ELSEVlER Intell. Data 
Anal. , vol. 1, no. 97, pp. 131 –156, 1997.  
[23] A. Kusiak and W. Li, “The prediction and 
diagnosis of wind turbine faults,” Renew. 
Energy , vol. 36, no. 1, pp. 16 –23, 2011.  
[24] R. L. Hu, K. Leahy, I. C. Konstantakopoulos, D. 
M. Auslander, C. J. Spanos, and A. M. Agogino, 
“Using domain knowledge features for wind 
turbine diagnostics,” Proc. - 2016 15th IEEE 
Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. Appl. ICMLA 2016 , pp. 
300–305, 2017.  
[25] K. Leahy, R. L. Hu, I. C. Konstantakopoulos, C. 
J. Spanos, A. M. Agogino, and D. T. J. 
O’Sulli van, “Diagnosing and Predicting Wind 
Turbine Faults from SCADA Data Using Support Vector Machines,” Int. J. Progn. Heal. 
Manag. , vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 1 –11, 2018.  
[26] H. Liu and H. Motoda,  Feature Extraction, 
Construction and Selection : A Data Mining 
Perspective . 1998.  
[27] R. O. Duda, P. E. Hart, and D. G. Stork, Pattern 
Classification . John Wiley & Sons, New York, 
2001.  
[28] Q. Gu, Z. Li, and J. Han, “Generalized Fisher 
Score for Feature Selection,” 2012.  
[29] M. Robnik -Sikonja and I. Kononenko, 
“Theoretical and empirical ana lysis of ReliefF 
and RRiefF,” J. Mach. Learn. Res. , vol. 53, pp. 
23–69, 2003.  
[30] H. Peng, F. Long, and C. Ding, “Feature 
selection based on mutual information: Criteria 
of Max -Dependency, Max -Relevance, and Min -
Redundancy,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach . 
Intell. , vol. 27, no. 8, pp. 1226 –1238, 2005.  
[31] M. Hall, “Correlation -based Feature Selection 
for Machine Learning,” 1999.  
[32] L. C. Molina, L. Belanche, À. Nebot, J. Girona, 
and C. N. C, “ Feature Selection Algorithms A 
Survey and Experimental Evaluation ” Data 
Mining, 2002. ICDM 2002. Proceedings. 2002 
IEEE Int. Conf. , pp. 306 –313, 2002.  
[33] P. Pudil, J. Novovičová, and J. Kittler, “Floating 
search methods in feature selection ,” Pattern 
Recognit. Lett. , vol. 15, no. 11, pp. 1119 –1125, 
1994.  
[34] S. Haykin, Neural Networks and Learning 
Machines . 2009.  
[35] N. V. Chawla, “Data Mining for Imbalanced 
Datasets: An Overview,” Data Min. Knowl. 
Discov. Handb. , pp. 875 –886, 2009.  
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
