warwick.ac.uk/lib-publications 
Manuscript version: Author’s Accepted Manuscript 
The version presented in WRAP is the author’s accepted manuscript and may differ from the 
published version or Version of Record. 
Persistent WRAP URL: 
http://wrap.warwick.ac.uk/163708                           
How to cite: 
Please refer to published version for the most recent bibliographic citation information.  
If a published version is known of, the repository item page linked to above, will contain 
details on accessing it. 
Copyright and reuse: 
The Warwick Research Archive Portal (WRAP) makes this work by researchers of the 
University of Warwick available open access under the following conditions.  
Copyright © and all moral rights to the version of the paper presented here belong to the 
individual author(s) and/or other copyright owners. To the extent reasonable and 
practicable the material made available in WRAP has been checked for eligibility before 
being made available. 
Copies of full items can be used for personal research or study, educational, or not-for-profit 
purposes without prior permission or charge. Provided that the authors, title and full 
bibliographic details are credited, a hyperlink and/or URL is given for the original metadata 
page and the content is not changed in any way. 
Publisher’s statement: 
Please refer to the repository item page, publisher’s statement section, for further 
information. 
For more information, please contact the WRAP Team at: wrap@warwick.ac.uk.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Reliability of Wind Turbine Power Modules using 
High-Resolution Wind Data Reconstruction: A 
Digital Twin Concept
Nikolaos Iosifidis 
School of Engineering
University of Warwick 
Coventry, UK 
Nikos.Iosifidis@warwick.ac.uk 
Biyun Chen 
School of Electrical Engineering
Guangxi University 
Nanning, China 
Chenbiyu@gxu.edu.cn Yanghao Zhong  
School of Engineering
University of Warwick 
Coventry, UK 
Yanghao.Zhong@warwick.ac.uk 
Li Ran 
School of Engineering
University of Warwick 
Coventry, UK
L.Ran@warwick.ac.ukBorong Hu  
Department of Engineering
University of Cambridge 
Cambridge, UK 
Bhu529@cam.ac.uk 
Subhash Lakshminarayana 
School of Engineering
University of Warwick 
Coventry, UK 
Subhash.Lakshminarayana@warwick.a
c.uk
Chunjiang Jia 
Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult 
Blyth, UK 
Chunjiang.Jia@ore.catapult.org.uk Paul McKeever 
Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult 
Blyth, UK 
Paul.McKeever@ore.catapult.org.uk Chong Ng 
Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult 
Blyth, UK 
Chong.Ng@ore.catapult.org.uk 
Abstract — This study introduces a Digital Twin (DT) 
framework for the reliability assessment of wind turbine power 
modules. Its importance is demonstrated by examining the effect 
of wind turbulence on the electrothermal behaviour and lifetime 
of machine side power electronic converters and semiconductor 
devices of direct-drive wind turbines. To this end, an 
electrothermal model embedded in a turbine model is 
established, which tracks the changes in wind speed. Using real-
world, 1-sec wind speed data, the real device junction 
temperature profiles and the fatigue experienced by the 
semiconductor devices are examined for two 10-min periods. 
Then, these metrics are compared with the corresponding 
metrics of the same 10-min periods when the wind speed is 
assumed constant and equal to the 10-min average value, which 
is often used in traditional device reliability assessment methods 
using SCADA data. Based on simulation results, the fatigue 
experienced by the semiconductor devices due to sudden 
fluctuations of the wind is found to be significantly higher than 
the fatigue estimated by traditional reliability assessment 
methods using the SCADA data. Two methods that attempt to 
reconstruct the wind spectrum (Random Walk Metropolis-
Hastings algorithm) and compress the wind speed data (Discrete 
Wavelet Transform) are proposed. These and/or other similar 
methods may be integrated into the DT interface to address the 
issue of the large volume of data required to be stored in DTs. 
Keywords—Digital Twin, Data compression, Wind turbulence 
Reliability assessment, Power Electronic Converters 
I.INTRODUCTION 
Surveys on onshore wind turbines (WT),[1][2], quantify 
the failure rates and downtimes of WT components. The 
findings show that power converters have considerably high 
failure rates, but low downtimes. However, the downtimes 
will inevitably increase for offshore WTs due to the 
remoteness of the sites and the harsh weather conditions that 
often make the on-site maintenance not feasible. Furthermore, 
the failure rates also increase for larger WTs [2], which is 
often the case in offshore sites. A review on power electronic 
converters states that 34% of the failures occur on the semiconductors and the solder [3]. Additionally, the study 
connects the predominant failure mechanisms, bond wire lift-
off and solder fatigue, to localized device temperature swings 
due to device heating.   
This study focuses on the direct-drive (DD), variable 
speed, offshore WT power conversion systems. These systems 
incorporate fully rated power converters to facilitate the 
variable speed operation between a specified cut-in and a rated 
cut-off wind speed. As a result, the condition and lifetime of 
the power converters are subject to stochastic aerodynamical 
loads. In design modification and condition-based 
maintenance, the condition and lifetime of the power 
electronic devices are assessed by using historical operational 
data by the means of simulation models and methods for 
fatigue estimation [3]. The degradation of the devices can be 
predicted beforehand, and thus the costs of maintenance can 
be reduced. Traditionally, in these studies, the operational data 
are gathered from SCADA measurements, with a sampling 
frequency of 10 minutes for long-term storage. For example, 
SCADA stores the average, maximum, minimum, and 
standard deviation of the wind speed every 10 minutes. 
However, early work in wind spectra suggests high turbulence 
of the wind in the timescales spanning from a few seconds to 
10 minutes, with a distinct peak at 1 minute [4]. The 10-min 
average wind data cannot capture the dynamic character of the 
wind, i.e. turbulence, which consists of frequent and 
unpredictable fluctuations in the short timescale, lasting tens 
of seconds [5]. These fluctuations affect the electrothermal 
behaviour of the power devices, often causing thermal cycling 
on the fully rated power converters, resulting in increased 
degradation. Such effects could be lost in the 10-min average 
value granularity which is currently used to estimate the 
lifetime. Thus, methods that can capture the turbulence 
features of the wind more accurately are necessary to improve 
the condition monitoring (CM) task and enhance the 
credibility of the reliability assessments.  
To overcome these drawbacks, we propose a digital twin 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
(DT) framework for the reliability assessment of power 
electronic devices in WTs. We analyze the advantages of DTs 
over the traditional methods by using an electrothermal model 
to simulate the electrothermal behaviour of the power modules 
using real-world high-frequency sampled wind data (at 1-sec 
intervals). To assess the condition of the semiconductor 
devices, we use material fatigue estimation methods. We 
present a comparison between the results from 10-min average 
wind speed data and 1-sec wind speed data, which highlights 
the advantages of DTs for CM tasks. Finally, we suggest two 
methods for the task of wind data compression and wind 
spectrum reconstruction. 
II.DIGITAL TWINS
A.Introduction to Digital Twins 
The initial definition of a DT, given by Grieves [6], defines 
the DT concept as a three dimensional (3-D) entity consisting 
of  1) a physical product in real space, 2) a virtual product in 
the virtual space, 3) the interconnection of data and 
information between the two. In the virtual space, the virtual 
product is a replica of the physical product, experiencing the 
same conditions (operating, environmental, etc.) as the real 
product and evolving identically through time.  
With advancements in network architecture, cyber 
physical systems (CPS), Internet of Things (IoT), artificial 
intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML) and data science, 
DTs are finding more and more industrial applications. As the 
applications of the DTs become more complex, the concept of 
DT is becoming more sophisticated. Tao et.al. proposed a 5-
D DT, adding the DT data and DT services to the original 3-
D DT [7]. For instance, the data gathered from the physical 
equipment can be transferred to the virtual space using IoT to 
be stored and analysed online, in cloud platforms. 
Subsequently, by using methods of data science, ML, and AI, 
the data can be transformed into meaningful information 
which describe the physical system. In order to achieve 
optimal results, the 5-D DT proposes a fusion of data which 
integrates information from both the physical space 
(operational data, environmental factors, etc.) and the virtual 
space (simulation results, predicted values and states).  
DT services consist of predefined functions and models 
which utilize the DT’s data to obtain information on the 
system’s condition and performance. Furthermore, DT 
services assist the system operator to interact with the DT 
environment. For example, when the DT is tuned to monitor 
the electrothermal behaviour of the power conversion system, 
lifetime, reliability, and fault detection models can be 
embedded in the DT interface. Thus, the operator of the DT 
can acquire important information on the condition of the 
system such as the fatigue experienced by the devices and 
their state of health, at any given time. DT services may also 
be used to analyze fault indicators (e.g., abnormally high 
temperatures, currents, etc.), predicting how the system will 
evolve based on these indicators. ML algorithms and pre-
trained neural networks (NN) may be used for that task. In [8], 
the authors review ML methods used for CM of various WT 
components. Based on the fused DT data and the DT services, 
the information from the physical products and virtual models 
are transformed into meaningful and actionable information 
that the operator can act upon, depending on factors such as 
fault indictors and their significance, damage accumulation 
and state of health of the power devices. 
B.Digital Twin for reliability assessment of wind turbine power modules 
A case study on 5-D DT on a WT was conducted in [9], to 
identify abrupt failures in the WT gearbox. The principles and 
methodology of [9] may be extended for the present case. The 
proposed workflow of the 5-D DT for reliability assessment 
of power modules is illustrated in Fig.1. 
Fig. 1. Workflow of the DT for reliability assessment of power 
modules. 
In the proposed framework, wind speed measurements 
from the on-site sensors (anemometers) are fed into the virtual 
electrothermal model of a WT drivetrain. The simulated 
current and temperatures of the devices are compared with the 
real measurements from on-site sensors to assess whether the 
DT is tuned. In the case of a fine-tuned DT, utilizing the 
embedded lifetime and reliability models within the DT 
services, the damage accumulated on the semiconductors and 
the state of health of the power module can be assessed. If the 
parameter difference between the physical converter and the 
virtual model exceeds a specified error limit, some actions are 
required to pinpoint which system is the one at fault. The 
method suggested for that task in [9], compares the real 
measurement and the simulated results against a reference 
state. In case only the simulated results deviate from the 
reference state, the virtual model requires tuning, and the 
model parameters are calibrated. In case only the physical 
measurements deviate from the reference state, an abrupt 
failure has probably occurred on the power converter, which 
the virtual model is unaware of. Subsequently, some actions 
must be implemented on the system by the DT operator to 
control the device remotely. Furthermore, the simulation 
model’s parameters will require calibration to be updated to 
the model’s new state. Finally, if the parameters of both the 
physical converter and virtual model deviate from the 
reference state, the virtual model parameters need to be 
calibrated first. Model parameter calibration may be achieved 
with regression and other optimization methods. For instance, 
in [10], the authors used Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) 
to adjust the simulation model internal parameters of a DC-
DC power converter. 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Failure prognosis based on several health indicators, 
abrupt failure diagnosis, and device state of health assessment 
are some of the DT features that may be implemented for WT 
power modules. However, these are not the main focus of this 
study. In the present work, the wind turbulence effect on the 
electrothermal behaviour and the lifetime of the fully rated 
converters is investigated. Comparing high-frequency 
sampled wind speeds with 10-min average wind speeds that 
are currently used for reliability analysis, the advantages of the 
DT concept for reliability assessment of the power electronic 
devices are highlighted. Furthermore, the following analysis 
aims to fill a gap in literature that has not yet quantified the 
effect of the wind turbulence on the lifetime of semiconductor 
devices due to temperature fluctuations occurring within tens 
of seconds. 
III.WIND DATA COMPRESSION AND RECONSTRUCTION
One of the issues that DTs face is the large volume of data 
required to be transferred and stored. As the WTs have 
multiple sensors in all their subcomponents, the costs of data 
storage of high-frequency sampled data might be very high 
and cost-wise unjustifiable. Therefore, methods that compress 
the wind data and reconstruct the wind spectrum are worth 
exploring. 
A.Random Walk Metropolis-Hastings  algorithm 
A Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method named 
Random Walk Metropolis-Hastings (RWMH) algorithm is 
proposed for the task of wind spectrum reconstruction. An 
advantage of this method is that it requires very little 
information that is already present in the current 10-min 
SCADA measurements, i.e., the average wind speed, and its 
standard deviation of every 10 minutes. The algorithm 
samples randomly from a proposed distribution and applies an 
accept/reject feature to build the time-series. Bibliography and 
early work in the wind spectra suggests that the wind speed 
follows a Gaussian distribution in the 10-min timeframe [11]. 
Therefore, the RWMH algorithm samples from Gaussian 
distributions, making the MCMC algorithm faster as the 
distribution is symmetric. A disadvantage of the RWMH is the 
fact that it builds the wind spectrum randomly, and it does not 
resemble how the real wind spectrum evolved during these 10 
minutes. However, all the turbulence features of the wind are 
captured by this method, and thus, the wind turbulence effect 
on the lifetime of power modules can be described. Further 
details can be found in [12] [13], and the algorithm is 
summarized below: 
Random Walk Metropolis-Hastings algorithm
Step 1. Sample a random point,   , from a Gaussian 
distribution,  ( ), with mean and standard deviation 
corresponding to a SCADA measurement. 
Step 2. Start the iterative process. For each iteration,   =
 2, …   , follow the steps: 
a. Sample a candidate random sample ,      , from the 
proposal Gaussian distribution,  ( ), with mean equal to 
the previous point,     , while the variance remains 
unchanged. Centering the candidate sample to the previous 
iteration makes the process a random walk. 
     ~      (   )  (1)
b. Calculate the acceptance probability of the candidate 
sample, α, which for symmetric distributions is:        , (   ) = (     )
 ( (   ))(2)
where  ( ) is the probability density function of the Gaussian 
distribution.
Step 3. Accept or reject the candidate sample,      , 
according to the following criteria:
a.If        , (   ) ≥1, always accept the candidate 
sample. 
b.If        , (   ) < 1, then the sample can be 
accepted or rejected based on: 
i.Generate a uniform random variable between 0 
and 1,   ~  (0,1) . 
  =        ,   ≤ 
 (   ),    >   (3)
Step 2 implies an autocorrelation factor between 
consecutive wind speeds, resembling the realistic wind 
spectra. The accept/reject feature of Step 3 emulates the 
sudden and unpredictable fluctuations of the wind in the short 
timescales. To validate the RWMH algorithm as a method to 
reconstruct the wind spectrum, two sample paths are 
generated and compared with the real wind speeds in Fig 2; 
one near the cut-in wind speed (4m/s) and one near the 
nominal wind speed (12m/s). The metrics of the RWMH 
algorithm resemble the real ones, even though they are 
randomly sampled, implying a good accuracy of the method. 
                                              (a)
   (b)
Fig. 2. Comparison of the RWMH generated wind spectrum with 
the real wind spectrum for (a) low winds, (b) medium winds. 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Despite the favourable results, as noted above, the 
RWMH method builds the wind spectrum randomly, and 
hence, the match between the reconstructed wind spectrum 
and the actual one is random as well. To overcome this issue, 
in the following, we propose a deterministic method that 
compresses/reconstructs the wind speed data using the 
Wavelet Transform (WTr). 
B.Wavelet Transform method  
To address the issue of the large volume of data that are 
required to be stored, several methods of data compression 
may be implemented by the DT services. Wavelet Transform 
(WTr) is a powerful tool for the analysis and compression of 
time-limited and non-stationary signals such as the wind 
speed data. WTr is similar to the well-known Fourier 
Transform (FT). However, it overcomes a key drawback of 
FT, in that, although FT provides a very precise analysis of 
the frequencies contained in the signal, it does not give any 
indication of when those frequencies occur. On the other 
hand, WTr is a multi-resolution transform, which allows for 
time-frequency analysis, i.e., the information about when 
certain features occur in the signal can be obtained. It is very 
useful for compression since changes at finer scales can be 
omitted during the compression stage. WTr accomplishes this 
by convolving the time-series signal with a series of basis 
functions called the “wavelet family”, which in turn consists 
of a series of time-shifted and scaled versions of the so-called 
“mother wavelet”. Examples of mother wavelets include the 
Haar wavelet, Daubechies wavelet, Fejer-Korovkin wavelet, 
and Biorthogonal wavelet, amongst others [14]. 
Mathematically, a mother wavelet signal can be represented 
by: 
 ( , )( )=1
√    − 
   (4)
where  b is the shift factor and a is the scaling factor that 
compresses or dilates the wavelet. Then, the WTr of a time 
signal f(t) is given by: 
  ( , )=    ( ) ( , )( )   
  (5)
Taking the WTr of the signal f(t) as above, and by varying 
the values of a and b, one can obtain a multi-resolution 
analysis of the signal of interest. The coefficients 
corresponding to small values will extract the coarse details 
of the signal f(t), whereas large values will extract the finer 
details. 
In real-world signals, such as the wind speed signals, the 
data are discrete. Thus, in practice, the Discrete WTr (DWTr) 
is used as a wavelet compression method. In DWTr, the 
values of the factors a and b have discrete values. Hence, the 
DWTr is computed as: 
  ( , )= <   ( , ), > =    ( ) ( , )( )   
  (6)
 ( , )( )= 2  
    − 2 
2   (7)
 =    (8)
where m and n are integers. In DWTr, the wavelet 
coefficients, a, can be computed numerically. Useful metrics 
to assess the efficacy of the wavelet compression consist of 
the total number of the coefficients required to reconstruct the signal, the compression ratio (9), the energy recovery (10), 
and the mean squared error.  
                (%)= 1−   .   
  .    ∗100 (9)
              (%)=|  | 
| | ∗100 (10)
where X is the vector of wind speed inputs, and C is the 
vector of the wavelet coefficients to be stored in order to 
reconstruct the wind speed profile. A high value of energy 
recovery means that more details of the original signal are 
restored, and the wind spectrum reconstruction is more 
accurate. 
In practice, the multi-resolution DWTr coefficients are 
computed by using a series of filtering and sub-sampling 
operations. For brevity, these details are omitted and can be 
found in [15]. The distribution of values for the wavelet 
coefficients is usually centered around 0, with a few large 
coefficients. This means that almost all the information is 
concentrated in a small fraction of the coefficients, thus, it 
can be efficiently compressed. In the following analysis, the 
Biorthogonal Wavelet 4.4 is chosen as the mother wavelet.  
The 4.4 indicates the number of vanishing moments for the 
reconstruction and decomposition filters. It is noted that other 
wavelets such as the Daubechies wavelet, the Fejer-Korovkin 
wavelet, the Coiflet wavelet, and the Symlet wavelet were 
tested and yielded similar results. The results of DWTr on a 
dataset are a set of high-frequency and low-frequency 
coefficients. As noted above, the high-frequency coefficients 
represent the details of the signal, whereas the low-frequency 
coefficients represent the approximate. The Biorthogonal 
DWTr is performed on 5 cascading layers. In each layer, the 
high-frequency coefficients are stored, and the low frequency 
coefficients are used for the DWTr of the next layer. The 
workflow of the DWTr is summarized below: 
Discrete Wavelet Transform 
Step 1. Perform DWTr on the wind speed data using the 
Biorthogonal Wavelet 4.4 as the mother wavelet to obtain the 
coefficients from (8).  
Step 2. Perform DWTr four more times on the low-frequency 
coefficients of each layer. Store the coefficients of all layers. 
Step 3. Set a threshold to keep only the 10% highest in 
magnitude coefficients. By doing so, most of the high-
frequency coefficients are filtered out, whereas most of the 
low-frequency coefficients remain. 
Step 4. Perform the inverse DWTr (IDWTr) using the 
remaining wavelet coefficients to obtain the wind speed 
spectrum. 
Table I summarises the results of the wavelet compression 
on the datasets. In Fig. 3 the wind spectrum reconstructed by 
the DWTr is plotted together with the real-time spectrum. As 
it is evident, the reconstructed spectrum closely follows the 
evolution of the real one. However, several wind fluctuations 
within seconds are not captured by the DWTr. With more 
refined thresholding, these fluctuations may be captured 
more accurately, at the expense of more wavelet coefficients 
stored. Therefore, there is a trade-off between having to store 
more coefficients and accepting this limitation.  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Table I. DWTr compression results on the wind data sets. 
Low wind speeds Medium wind speeds
Coefficients stored 63 63
Compression ratio (%) 89.29 89.29
Energy recovery (%) 99.58 99.42
Mean squared error  1.02 0.15
 (a) 
     (b)
 Fig. 3. Comparison of the DWTr wind spectrum with the real wind 
spectrum for (a) low winds, (b) medium winds. 
IV.ELECTROTHERMAL MODELLING AND LIFETIME 
ESTIMATION
The effectiveness of employing the reconstructed wind 
speed profiles to evaluate the turbine converter 
electrothermal behaviour will be examined in this section. An 
electrothermal model of a 600kW DD converter is established 
to calculate the junction temperature profiles of the IGBT and 
diode by using the reconstructed and original wind speed 
profiles. Their corresponding damages accumulated during 
the 10-min periods are then compared to validate that the data 
reconstructions provided similar lifetime estimations as the 
real wind speeds. 
A.Electrothermal modelling 
The electrothermal behaviour of the IGBTs and diodes in 
a half-bridge power module (Infineon FF1000R17IE4, 
1700V/1000A) widely used in the wind industry is assessed 
by means of an electrothermal simulation model embedded 
in a 600kW DD turbine model which responds to the change 
of the wind speed. Four types of wind speed inputs are 
applied to the model for comparison: 1) high-resolution, real-time wind speeds at 1-sec intervals, 2) real-time 10-min 
average wind speeds, 3) a reconstruction of the wind 
spectrum using the RWMH algorithm, 4) a reconstruction of 
the wind spectrum using the DWTr method. 
The model is triggered by the wind speed input, and the 
shaft speed and the generator RMS current are obtained based 
on a look-up-table (LUT) of the turbine’s characteristics. 
Subsequently, the junction temperature variation and the 
power losses of the IGBT and diode are calculated by means 
of a Cauer network merged with a heatsink model at 25 °C 
ambient temperature. The thermal network parameters and 
electrical characteristics of the devices are extracted from the 
product’s datasheet to establish an electrothermal coupling 
loop for junction temperature calculation [16]. 
The electrothermal model tracks the wind speed change 
and reaches the rated 600kW power generation at 12m/s 
nominal wind speed. Above 12m/s, the generated power is 
capped at 600kW through turbine pitching. During the 
modelling process, the generator current cycles of 
fundamental frequencies are taken into consideration since 
they can also send the fully rated machine side power 
converter into deep temperature cycling. Since the converter 
operates following the variable wind speeds, the current on 
the devices is a sinewave which has the same RMS value as 
that of the generator RMS current and the same frequency as 
that of the wind speed. Thus, the lifetime consumption of the 
semiconductor devices under low frequency current cycles in 
a DD turbine system is considered. 
B.Lifetime estimation 
During thermal cycling, the number of cycles to failure is 
estimated based on the mean of the junction temperature,   , 
and the amplitude of temperature variation   . The LESIT 
model [17] indicates a power law dependency for    and an 
Arrhenius activation energy term for the mean temperature 
  : 
  =         
     (11)
where  = 640  and   = −5, based on experimental 
lifetime test results on the devices used in the project.  =
7.8 10       and  = 8.314           is the gas 
constant. These depend on the design of the power module, 
but the values quoted from the previous study are used for 
comparative evaluation in the present study. 
     The method used to count the junction temperature cycles 
is Rainflow Counting (RF) [18]. It breaks down the time-
sequence of the junction temperatures into a series of peaks 
and troughs to count the number of cycles of each   /  
case that the device undergoes. The RF method should be 
used with caution since it does not relate to specific failure 
rates nor failure mechanisms. Taking that in consideration, it 
is used to make assessments on the linear damage 
accumulation,  ,on the power devices, in conjunction with 
the Miner’s rule, (12): 
 =     , 
(  ) ,  , (12)
where   ,  is the number of the cycles observed for the 
combination of the i-th temperature mean and the j-th
temperature range, and (  ) ,  is the number of cycles of 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
fatigue to failure for this combination of mean and range 
according to (11). When C≅1, failure occurs. 
C.Results 
The simulation results are illustrated in Figs. 4-7. The first 
50 seconds of the simulation are omitted from the graphs, as 
they represent the transient temperature. 
The “Average wind speed” refers to the SCADA 10-min 
measurements, where the wind speed for the 10-min period is 
assumed constant and equal to its average value; which is a 
metric used in traditional reliability assessment methods. In 
this case, the device temperature varies only due to the 
current’s fundamental cycles. Temperature differences from 
1 to 5 degree Celsius are observed, with the diodes more 
affected. For the low average winds, the temperature 
variation of both devices shows slight changes around 60 and 
300 seconds. This is a result of the low frequency of the 
current’s fundamental cycles which has a larger effect for 
lower frequencies. Similar behaviour is present in the 
medium wind speed temperature profiles. However, since the 
frequency of the current’s fundamental cycles is higher, the 
effect is less evident. 
(a) 
(b) 
Fig. 4. Low wind speeds: IGBT temperature variation comparison 
between real, average, and (a) RWMH sample wind spectrum. (b) 
DWTr wind spectrum. 
As depicted in Figs. 4-7, the temperature varies 
significantly throughout a 10-min period, as a result of the 
variable speed operation. It is evident that when the wind 
speed data are not sampled frequently, important information on the device temperature is lost within the 10-min 
timeframe. The temperature variation of the RWMH sample 
wind spectrum demonstrates similar metrics and turbulence 
features as that of the real wind speeds, even though the 
spectrum is randomly generated. The DWTr spectrum also 
shows nearly identical temperature behaviour for both 
devices, in both instances. As mentioned above, some 
turbulence features are missed during the wavelet 
reconstruction, thus explaining some differences in the 
temperature profiles. Therefore, the electrothermal behaviour 
can be described effectively and the wind turbulence effect 
on the lifetime of the devices can be assessed using both 
methods. A distinct difference between the two methods is 
that the DWTr addresses the task of wind spectrum 
reconstruction from a data perspective, building the spectrum 
according to how it evolved in real-time, but missing some 
information for better compression ratio. On the other hand, 
the RWMH addresses the same task from a more physics-
based perspective, taking advantage the Gaussian behaviour 
of the wind in the 10-min timeframe. Thus, it is a method that 
attempts to emulate the wind’s behaviour as a natural 
phenomenon, using only basic statistical metrics of the 10-
min timeframe. Another difference between the methods is 
that the DWTr requires additional data to be stored, whereas 
the RWMH algorithm utilizes data already present in the 
SCADA measurements. 
 (a) 
 (b) 
Fig. 5. Low wind speeds: Diode temperature variation comparison 
between real, average, and (a) RWMH sample wind spectrum. (b) 
DWTr wind spectrum. 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
(a) 
(b) 
Fig. 6. Medium wind speeds: IGBT temperature variation 
comparison between real, average, and (a) RWMH sample wind 
spectrum. (b) DWTr wind spectrum. 
The fatigue estimation results show that when the wind 
speed is not frequently sampled, the damage can be 
underestimated significantly. Based on the results from Table 
II, there is a 4 to 7 orders of magnitude difference in damage 
accumulation between the real temperature profiles of the 
power devices and their temperature profiles when the wind 
speed is considered constant for same period, with the average 
wind speeds predicting less fatigue. Both the RWMH 
algorithm and the DWTr method yielded results within the 
same order of magnitude for both devices, in both instances, 
implying a good accuracy for wind spectrum reconstruction 
for reliability analysis. The DWTr method’s accuracy for 
reliability estimations is subject to its inability to capture some 
sudden fluctuations of the wind, occurring within seconds. 
The RWMH algorithm’s accuracy is subject to its 
stochasticity. In individual 10-min periods the estimated 
fatigue by the RWMH can deviate from the real fatigue 
because the spectrum is generated randomly. However, since 
the wind has a Gaussian behaviour in the 10-min timeframe, 
these differences cannot be unreasonably large, and will 
probably be within the same order of magnitude. It is 
hypothesised that when the algorithm is used to reconstruct 
the spectrum for longer timeframes, these individual 
differences will be counteracted by the large number of 10-
min operational cycles.  (a) 
(b) 
Fig. 7. Medium wind speeds: Diode temperature variation 
comparison between real, average, and (a) RWMH sample wind 
spectrum. (b) DWTr wind spectrum. 
Table II. Reliability assessment results for the 10-min periods. 
Low wind speeds Medium wind speeds
CIGBT CDiode CIGBT CDiode
Real spectrum 2.66 10-156.95 10-152.22 10-92.79 10-8
RWMH 
spectrum 7.43 10-151.66 10-151.14 10-91.73 10-8
DWTr 
spectrum 3.64 10-158.63 10-151.57 10-91.61 10-8
Average wind 
speeds 3.34 10-202.47 10-199.79 10-168.54 10-13
V.CONCLUSIONS
This study focuses on the DT concept for reliability 
assessment of WT power modules. First, a DT framework to 
examine the electrothermal behaviour of the power modules 
is proposed. Unlike the traditional reliability assessment 
methods which utilize SCADA measurements with 10-min 
sampling frequency, DTs allow for real-time data transfer 
between the physical power converters and the simulation 
models embedded in the DT’s interface. The importance of 
integrating the power conversion system with DTs is 
highlighted by examining the wind turbulence effect on the 
electrothermal behaviour and the lifetime of the machine side 
power converters and semiconductor devices in a DD WT. 
When the fluctuations of the wind that occur within tens of 
seconds are disregarded by averaging in SCADA, the fatigue 
experienced by the semiconductors can be significantly 
underestimated. Based on the simulation results for two 10-

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
min instances, average wind speeds predict 4 to 7 orders of 
magnitude lower fatigue experienced by the semiconductor 
devices. Differences of this magnitude can affect the 
remaining lifetime estimation of the devices for longer 
timeframes such as several months or years. Similar behaviour 
expanded in longer operational cycles may be a reason behind 
the shorter realistic lifetime of the devices compared to the 
design’s expectations.  
To address the issue of the large volume of data required 
to be stored in DTs, one stochastic method (RWMH 
algorithm) and one data compression method (DWTr) are 
proposed to compress the wind data and reconstruct the wind 
spectrum. These methods may be integrated in the DT 
services, which is one dimension of the 5-D DT where 
functions and computations can be executed. Although the 
RWMH algorithm attempts to reconstruct the wind spectrum 
randomly, all the turbulence features are captured. The 
electrothermal behaviour has similar metrics with the real 
case, and the fatigue prediction is within the same order of 
magnitude. The DWTr method reconstructs the wind 
spectrum from a data perspective. Even though it misses some 
turbulence features, the spectrum generated by DWTr closely 
resembles the observed. Thus, the temperature profiles of the 
semiconductor devices are nearly identical to the real profiles. 
Furthermore, the fatigue predicted by the DWTr is within the 
same order of magnitude of the real case. Therefore, both 
methods indicate a promising potential for the task of wind 
data compression and wind spectrum reconstruction in DT 
environments. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank Offshore Renewable 
Energy Catapult for providing useful data to complete this 
study. 
REFERENCES
[1] B. Hahn, M. Durstewitz, and K. Rohrig, “Reliability of Wind 
Turbines: Experiences of 15 years with 1,500 WTs,” Wind Energy 
Proc. Euromech Colloq. , no. July, pp. 329–332, 2007. 
[2] F. Spinato, P. J. Tavner, G. J. W. Van Bussel, and E. Koutoulakos, 
“Reliability of wind turbine subassemblies,” IET Renew. Power 
Gener. , vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 387–401, 2009. 
[3] S. Yang, D. Xiang, A. Bryant, P. Mawby, L. Ran, and P. Tavner, 
“Condition monitoring for device reliability in power electronic 
converters: A review,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron. , vol. 25, no. 
11, pp. 2734–2752, 2010. 
[4] I. Van der Hoven, “POWER SPECTRUM OF HORIZONTAL 
WIND SPEED IN THE FREQUENCY RANGE FROM 0.0007 
TO 900 CYCLES PER HOUR,” American Meteorological 
Society, Apr. 2020. 
[5] K. Ma, M. Liserre, F. Blaabjerg, and T. Kerekes, “Thermal loading 
and lifetime estimation for power device considering mission 
profiles in wind power converter,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron. , 
vol. 30, no. 2, pp. 590–602, 2015. 
[6] M. Dr. Grieves, “Digital Twin : Manufacturing Excellence through 
Virtual Factory Replication This paper introduces the concept of a 
A Whitepaper by Dr . Michael Grieves,” White Pap. , no. March, 
2015. 
[7] F. Tao, M. Zhang, and A. Y. C. Nee, “Five-Dimension Digital 
Twin Modeling and Its Key Technologies,” Digit. Twin Driven 
Smart Manuf. , pp. 63–81, 2019. 
[8] A. Stetco et al. , “Machine learning methods for wind turbine 
condition monitoring: A review,” Renew. Energy , vol. 133, pp. 
620–635, 2019. 
[9] F. Tao, M. Zhang, Y. Liu, and A. Y. C. Nee, “Digital twin driven 
prognostics and health management for complex equipment,” 
CIRP Ann. , vol. 67, no. 1, pp. 169–172, 2018. 
[10] Y. Peng, S. Zhao, and H. Wang, “A Digital Twin Based Estimation 
Method for Health Indicators of DC-DC Converters,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron. , vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 2105–2118, 2021. 
[11] T. Burton, N. Jenkins, D. Sharpe, and E. Bossanyi, Wind Energy 
Handbook, Second Edition . John Wiley and Sons, 2011. 
[12] S. Särkkä and A. Solin, “Applied stochastic differential 
equations,” Appl. Stoch. Differ. Equations , pp. 1–316, 2019. 
[13] S. Brooks, A. Gelman, G. L. Jones, and X. L. Meng, Handbook of 
Markov Chain Monte Carlo . CRC Press, 2011. 
[14] S. Mallat, A Wavelet Tour of Signal Processing . Elsevier Inc., 
2009. 
[15] S. G. Mallat, “A Theory for Multiresolution Signal 
Decomposition: The Wavelet Representation,” IEEE Trans. 
Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. , vol. 11, no. 7, pp. 674–693, 1989. 
[16] A. S. Bahman, K. Ma, and F. Blaabjerg, “A Lumped Thermal 
Model Including Thermal Coupling and Thermal Boundary 
Conditions for High-Power IGBT Modules,” IEEE Trans. Power 
Electron. , vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 2518–2530, Mar. 2018. 
[17] M. Held, P. Jacob, G. Nicoletti, P. Scacco, and M. H. Poech, “Fast 
power cycling test for insulated gate bipolar transistor modules in 
traction application,” Int. J. Electron. , vol. 86, no. 10, pp. 1193–
1204, 1999. 
[18] L. R. GopiReddy, L. M. Tolbert, B. Ozpineci, and J. O. P. Pinto, 
“Rainflow Algorithm-Based Lifetime Estimation of Power 
Semiconductors in Utility Applications,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. , 
vol. 51, no. 4, pp. 3368–3375, 2015. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
