Citation: Ioannides, M.G.;
Stamelos, A.P .; Papazis, S.A.;
Stamataki, E.E.; Stamatakis, M.E.
Internet of Things-Based Control of
Induction Machines: Specifics of
Electric Drives and Wind Energy
Conversion Systems. Energies 2024 ,17,
645. https://doi.org/10.3390/
en17030645
Academic Editor: Eugen Rusu
Received: 10 December 2023
Revised: 14 January 2024
Accepted: 25 January 2024
Published: 29 January 2024
Copyright: ©2024 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
energies
Review
Internet of Things-Based Control of Induction Machines:
Specifics of Electric Drives and Wind Energy Conversion Systems
Maria G. Ioannides1,*
, Anastasios P . Stamelos1, Stylianos A. Papazis2
, Erofili E. Stamataki1
and Michael E. Stamatakis1
1School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, National Technical University of Athens,
15780 Athens, Greece
2Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Engineering, Democritus University of Thrace,
67100 Xanthi, Greece
*Correspondence: mgioann@mail.ntua.gr
Abstract: The Internet of Things (IoT) is introduced in systems with electrical machines, such as in
electric drive systems, wind energy generating systems, and small and special machines, to remote
monitor and control the operation for data acquisition and analysis. These systems can integrate with
the equipment and retrofit the existing installations. At the end of the control loops there are always
motors, or actuators, of big or small ratings, of rotating or linear movements, electrical or nonelectrical,
which must produce the motion. This article analyses selected aspects of research and applications of
IoT-based control in electric drive systems and of wind energy conversion systems with induction
machines. Various applications and study cases of control systems of electrical machines with IoT
technology are described. With the IoT-based control of induction machine systems operators can
remotely monitor parameters and obtain accurate real-time feedback during fast changing duty cycle
operation. Thus, IoT creates multipurpose instruments in the remote control of induction machines.
The paper offers a comprehensive analysis of IoT-based control applications in the field of induction
machines, with technical details of design, construction, experimental testing, and prototyping,
that are useful to energy engineering specialists in the sector of electric drives and wind energy
conversion systems.
Keywords: Internet of Things; electric drive systems; wind energy conversion systems; induction
machines; microprocessors; sensors
1. Introduction
The technology of Internet of Things (IoT) connects online to the internet and integrates
devices. The IoT networks different kinds of physical objects equipped with electronic
modules, acquires and transmits data, allows access to devices in remote areas, and the
users can monitor their operation in real time. The development of IoT technology led to the
emergence of new systems which are monitoring and controlling remotely complex struc-
tures. Operators can remotely monitor multipart installations, without human presence in
the space where systems are sited. The interaction between machines, actuators, systems,
sensors, and displays, has developed smart manufacturing applications which generate big
volumes and diversity of data. Nevertheless, at the end of the control loops there are always
motors or actuators, of big or small ratings, of rotating or linear movements, electrical or
nonelectrical, which must produce the motion.
Recent reports present the advancement of IoT from an interdisciplinary viewpoint,
like hardware and software of computers, control systems, sensors, and networks, and for
a wide range of sectors. The IoT entered in to modern life by connecting smart devices,
technologies, and applications. The principles of operating IoT, and its enabling of commu-
nication technologies, internet communication protocols, cloud computing, and big data
analytics are applications and research topics of interest [1].
Energies 2024 ,17, 645. https://doi.org/10.3390/en17030645 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 2 of 28
Thus, new emerged industrial applications established the Industrial Internet of Things
(IIoT) [ 2] that connects different components of industrial equipment using sensors, and
with the use of software, transmits large amounts of data. The acquired data are processed
creating smartness. Related topics of smart processing are IoT-assisted manufacturing,
which uses cloud computing, big data, and ICT [ 3]. The introduction of IIoT in industrial
sectors stimulates industry growth, involving smart machines with embedded sensors,
connectivity, and managing acquired data for various applications with electrical machines.
IIoT connected systems allow the operators to real-time monitor the status of electrical
machines, give fast feedback and regulation, and thus, optimize production processes in
factories. Already, applications of IoT found in places in many sectors of technology and
life, are installed in embedded devices, in smart grids, for environmental monitoring in
agriculture, in construction of buildings, in automotive industries, and in health care [4].
Applications of IoT in smart grids of energy generating systems are parts of the
Internet of Energy (IoE), which has roles in monitoring, remote control and management
of installations, and equipment of electric generators, such as in Wind Energy Conversion
Systems (WECS) of Renewable Energy Sources (RES) generation units. Because renewables
depend on climate and weather conditions, the size and quality of energy produced from
renewables are variable, and moreover, have high production costs. Thus, the various
RES electricity generation devices, whether connected to electricity grids or stand-alone
electricity systems, must provide for the possibility of improving the quality of the power
produced [ 5]. Other weaknesses are meeting the increasing demand of electric power by
RES in a reliable and efficient way. In order to achieve consumer demand for electricity
when produced by hybrid schemes with RES, fossil fuels, and backup storage, new low-cost
power generation schemes need to be further explored [5,6].
Along with advances in WECS design, construction, and sizes, the wind energy indus-
try has also progressed due to Industry 4.0, which improves performance, processes, and
computing power, making it easier to acquire and process data for automation, optimiza-
tion, predictive maintenance, and new applications [4Mal]. Other aspects of IoT-enabled
energy systems are architectures and functionalities of smart grid systems, with focus on
communication, networking, computing, sensing, and security, which make them more
robust, secure, efficient, and reliable, [7].
The energy sector change from a centralized to a decentralized system, by unifying big
and small energy producers and RES producers, and using ICT and IoT technology, must
reach net-zero emissions sustainability goals [ 8]. In various enterprises, by using actuators
and sensors to collect and analyze real-time data, IIoT modifies the operation of machines
and devices so that they do not require human intervention. Then, based on data collected
and stored in real time, IIoT supports decision making, and uses this data for periodic
assessment and maintenance forecasting [ 9]. Thus, applications through IIoT contribute to
the automation of industrial production, the management of business processes, and the
transportation of goods and people. The IIoT offers the improvement of human labor con-
ditions, or even unmanned labor, especially in conditions where people can be exposed to
hazardous agents and environments, such as toxic, explosive, or radioactive environments,
in mining, underwater, or at heights [ 9]. The United States energy management system
included grid surveillance with specifics on: weather and the impact of climate changes on
energy generation and demand; forecasting of peak loads; renewable energy reliability and
changeability; generation increase, decision analysis, and IoE integration [10].
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) are significant parts of the lifecycle costs of manu-
facturing machinery and of wind plants. In offshore wind farms, the condition monitoring
instrumentation is used for fault identification and improvement of performance [ 11]. The
state-of-the-art in O&M comprises offshore wind plants, WECS condition monitoring,
deterioration models, fault diagnosis, prognosis, aspects of planning O&M, using artificial
intelligence, data processing, integrating technology, automation, digitalization in the off-
shore maintenance sector, and debating the benefits, limitations, and application of these
approaches with IoT and Industry 4.0 [11].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 3 of 28
As far as developments in building infrastructure are concerned, energy installations
using IoT are notable [ 12,13]. Some of the elements of IoT are installed from the design
phase and concern building control devices, such as sensors, hardware and software,
monitoring and data collection to predict energy consumption [ 14], supplying appliances
with electricity, optimizing energy use, and ultimately improving the quality of life of
residents [12,13].
In industrial plants, induction motors (IMs) are installed as varying speed-varying
torque actuators, with good performance and reliability under many operating states
and duty cycles. Modelling approaches of control configurations include mathematical
equations, numerical analysis, computer simulations, results for the evaluation of induction
motor parameters, the behavior obtained when different control techniques are applied [ 15],
and the basic components for online monitoring of electrical equipment with electrical
machines using IoT [16].
Among the important areas of IoT use related to electrical induction machines are
process control with remote operation and status monitoring, equipment fault diagnosis,
and power generation control. There are other fields such as education, buildings, and
medicine as well. An early detection can be based on an online automatic fault diagnostic
technique for the maintenance of induction motors using the IoT [ 17]. The benefits of
induction motor controlled systems with IoT are optimized performance, reduced costs for
O&M, increased reliability, and accuracy in prediction of failures.
To enable the introduction of WECS in the IoE and the conversion of wind energy,
WECS technologies and their design are transformed into decentralized structures, methods,
and technologies to cover electricity generation, and depending on load requirements and
weather fluctuations, to include the characteristics of cyber-physical systems: security,
remote control, networking, life cycle growth, and sustainability [ 18]. There is a tendency to
deepen knowledge of double-output induction generator DOIG control systems operating
in WECS. Thus, WECS equipped with DOIG have the advantages of operating with variable
rotational speed input and constant frequency output and applying the techniques of
maximum power point tracker MPPT, control the generated voltage, frequency, active, and
reactive power [ 19]. The dynamic states of power systems embedded with smart grids and
instabilities due to unpredictable wind and load changes, which can cause temporary load
rejection, can be addressed using artificial intelligence and forecasting to predict component
failures, reduce diagnostic time, and increase accuracy and stability for DOIG [19].
The development of IoT has raised new issues for energy conversion to power IoT
components and devices, such as nanogenerators, with lightweight simple construction
and to make them self-driving [ 20]. Nanogenerators can be piezoelectric, triboelectric, or
pyroelectric. Thus, the sensors connected to the IoT can be powered using nanogenerators
instead of conventional power supplies.
In Table 1 are the selected generic topics regarding electrical machines, working as
induction motors and as induction generators, and their IoT-based specialized control
systems for industrial applications and for WECS in energy generation power plants.
Table 1. Generic topics regarding electrical machines with IoT-based control systems.
Generic Topics Specifics and Technical Aspects Citations Reference Number
Induction MotorsOnline monitoring performance of
electrical motors using IoT.Suitability of IoT components. 2 [16]
Online automatic diagnostic techniques
and early failure detection.Condition monitoring of
maintenance with IoT.10 [17]
Induction GeneratorsWECS to cover load demands and
generation requirements related to
weather conditions.Technologies that allow WECS for
IoE: remote control, networking,
safety.117 [18]
WECS with DOIG in smart grids,
load-rejection from instabilities of wind
and load demand.Prognostic diagnosis, increased
accuracy, and stability.6 [19]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 4 of 28
Table 1. Cont.
Generic Topics Specifics and Technical Aspects Citations Reference Number
Small machinesNanogenerators, lightweight and
self-driving.Energy conversion devices for IoT
sensors, powered by
nanogenerators to replace power
supplies.0 [20]
This paper examines the progress of electrical machines with IoT-based control from
an interdisciplinary perspective, such as design and implementation, computer hardware
and software, control systems, sensors and networks, and selected relevant topics from
a wide range of sectors. The authors of this paper present new aspects of the technology
of integration of electrical machine control systems with IoT, mainly the operation of
electric machines with IoT as generators in wind energy electric power plants and as
motors in controlled electric drive systems. This comprehensive study is based on our own
acquired knowledge, from studies and experiments in our laboratory, and published in
many technical reports. On the other hand, from a keyword-based search in databases,
such as IEEE Xplore, Scopus, Scholar, and MDPI for reported discoveries, the retrieved
information is selected and organized in two main topics which are: (1) the induction
motors and (2) the induction generators, from the perspective of their remote control over
IoT, with the specifics of structures designed for driving industrial loads and for generation
of electric power from wind turbines, respectively.
This article examines the state-of-the-art developments presented in IoT from different
perspectives, from a wide range of sectors, such as computer hardware and software,
control systems, and sensors and networks, but always applied to the control of induction
machines as a field of application. It considers both electrical machines, such as generators
in renewable energy systems, and motors in electric drive systems with emphasis on new
aspects of the technology of integrating electrical machine control systems with IoT.
The technical and scientific literature retrieved from the above search and based on
acquired knowledge is rich in review papers related to the generics of IoT. Most papers
tackle the generic topics for many branches of industry, energy, communications, society,
and daily life. Moreover, our search in databases revealed that many review papers are
highly downloaded and cited. In Table 1 we can see some of the representative review
papers and their numbers of citations. Most of their conclusions are that the IoT technologies
are attractive, suitable, and easy to be introduced in many sectors, which continue to
advance, and improve productivity across various industrial sectors.
However, our search in databases reveals that there are few reviews and research
papers which focus on specifics of the design and implementation of experimental tests
for the construction of prototypes for particular applications with IoT. The most published
articles on electrical machines with IoT do not give other researchers the necessary details to
replicate such experiments, such as technical data of equipment or hardware and software,
or even more, to further continuate similar experiments with new aspects. There is a
gap of publications containing details of design, implementation, tests, experiments, and
development of prototypes of IoT-based control of induction machines. Thus, the main
novelty of our paper consists of the following:
Indeed, from a top-down assessment of the selected referred review publications in
this paper, somebody could be misled to an impression of largely a review of reviews.
Conversely, from a bottom-up perspective, if we begin the search and review from the
basic details of design, hardware selection and creation, construction and implementation,
software development, connection and communication, data collection and processing,
and user interaction interfaces of IoT-based control systems of electrical machines, our
novelty is established because, in most of the published papers, such specific details on
“how to build it” do not exist. This gap must be filled, the publications must give full
construction details, and this fact will especially positively influence the young researchers
and engineers, which must develop and make the IoT-based systems work.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 5 of 28
In the following sections of this paper are selected reports which publish the spe-
cific technical details of the IoT design, construction, and implementation. The references
reviewed are selected based on terms of relevance and affinity to the subject matter. Never-
theless, this research is not exhaustive but provides an illustration of the research in the
area of IoT-based control of induction machines for specific applications.
This article is structured as follows: in Section 1, the main topics of IoT-controlled
industrial applications with induction motors and energy generation with induction gener-
ators are presented; in Section 2, the detailed structure of the IoT-based control system of an
induction machine working as a motor in Electric Drive Systems EDS and as a generator in
power plants with wind energy conversion systems WECS is presented, with description
of hardware and of software; in Section 3, selected industrial manufacturing with electric
drive systems applications of IoT-based control with induction motors; in Section 4 is a
presentation of selected applications of IoT-based control of induction generators in WECS;
in Section 5 new emerging energy conversion applications related to IoT, such as in en-
ergy harvesting, in energy education, in buildings, etc., are described; in Section 6 is the
discussion, and in Section 7 are the conclusions and proposals for future research.
2. Control System of Induction Machine with IoT
The parameters of electrical equipment with electrical machines, which can be sensed
and measured, are voltages, currents, energy, power factor, frequencies, vibration, and
temperature. The IoT-based real-time monitoring acquires data remotely, visualizes ac-
curately the data and parameters which are not easy to be accessed, and improves the
operating process. Various aspects of electric drive control have already been investigated
and experimentally tested, such as scalar control of cage rotor induction motors [ 21,22]
and double fed induction motors [ 23], using Raspberry Pi microcomputers [ 24], Arduinos
microcontrollers [ 24], software, and IoT connection, and their published results have been
published to be used for further analysis and comparison [24].
Programmable logic controllers (PLCs) are installed in systems of electrical machines
with industrial automation, to control the fast-changing duty cycles, surge voltages, and
over-currents caused during the succession of stop and restart [ 25]. Moreover, PLCs are
installed in industries to optimize automation operation, increase quality, reliability, and
reduce production costs. Also, PLC-controlled protective relays manage failures such as
phase losses, over-currents, power surges, uneven phase shift of supply voltages, uneven
current phase shift, and uncontrolled frequent stop and restart [15].
In various applications, electric machines are installed and function in two modes
using similar basic equipment, but in different settings and connections. They can operate
either as electric motors for industrial loads [ 21,22,24] or as electric generators [ 26–28],
which are preferred in RES installations [27], and mainly in WECS [28].
Power plants using renewables and IoT are considered as part of the emerging Internet
of Renewable Energy Sources (IoRE), which includes networking, control, productivity,
security, and sustainability [ 29], with lower emissions [ 30–32], optimization of economics
with multiple criteria [ 33], depending on load demand [ 34], and with energy constraints [ 6].
However, because electricity produced from renewables is of variable quantity, power
quality, and high cost, these important problems must be solved to meet electricity demand
with optimized efficiency [ 34,35]. Despite the technological development so far, new RES
schemes for continuous energy supply, of sufficient quantity, and at lower cost, are still
being explored. Various energy installations connected to the IoT for renewable energy
industry applications have been described in the works [36–38].
IoT has been installed in electric machine applications with electric drive control:
the induction motor control system that communicates with the IoT, obtains feedback
data from sensors, and receives commands over the internet [ 24,39]. The project [ 40]
designs, implements, and tests an application for monitoring induction motors via IoT,
including remote control of their operation, receiving commands, and transmitting feedback
information and measurements over the internet to a database. This research was developed
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 6 of 28
as part of broader experiments conducted in the authors’ Electric Driver Control Laboratory.
For many years this laboratory has been engaged in the study of remote control of the
performance of electric machines via the Internet [24,39,40].
The rotor cage induction motor IM is most installed in industrial processes, while
the double fed induction machine (DFIM) can be installed both in EDS for slip power
recovery units [ 23,41], and in WECS for generation of electric power from wind [ 28,42,43].
Operating as either a motor or a generator, the induction machine’s drive system adjusts the
electromechanical energy conversion direction, switching between converting mechanical
energy from electrical power or generating electrical power from mechanical input. This
bidirectional energy flow necessitates the use of power converters, either rectifier-inverter
or cycloconverters, to interface with the three-phase AC network.
Figure 1 illustrates the architecture of an IoT-based control system for induction
machines. This setup is structured and based on the single-board microcomputer Raspberry
Pi (RPI) as the central electronic device. The RPI functions as a server and interfaces with
a web application hosted in the Azure cloud, with a network of sensors connected to
the single-board microcontrollers SBMA1 and SBMA2, and with the rectifier/inverter.
Moreover, the RPI hosts a static web page directly accessible through an IP address of the
operator. The RPI acts as a hub between these systems, enabling data exchange among
sensors, inverter, induction motor or generator, and load.
Energies 2024, 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW   7 of 30 
 
  
Figure 1. General structure  of IoT-based  control system for Induction  Machines.  The arrows show 
the ﬂow of data. 
The following  main issues need to be resolved  when developing  controlled  IoT-based  
electrical  machine  systems:  
 The connectivity  of power equipment  to the internet, communication  with servers, 
software,  and databases.  The units directly connected  are electric motors, power con-
verters, microcontrollers,  sensors, measuring  instruments.  Other modules  are con-
nected indirectly  via a gateway,  and there is two-way  communication  with the 
backend system to register devices and collect data. 
 The data management:  the acquisition,  conversion,  storage, retrieval,  analysis,  pro-
cessing, security,  visualization,  and presentation  of data in real time. 
The diagram from Figure 1 shows an IoT-based  control system for induction  ma-
chines. The central electronic  device is the Raspberry  Pi (RPI), which communicates  with: 
 Azure cloud web page 
 Sensors connected  to single-board  microcontrollers  SBMA1 and SBMA2 
 Rectiﬁer/inverter  which drives the induction  motor 
 Static control web page for direct access of operator  
The RPI acts as a bridge between these elements,  facilitating  data exchange  between 
the sensors, inverter, induction  machine  or generator,  and the load. It is used in this IoT-
based control system for induction  machines  for several reasons: 
 Power eﬃciency: The RPI is a low-power  device, which is important  for embedded  
systems like this one. This means that it can run on a small battery or even be pow-
ered directly from the induction  machine itself. 
 Computational  power: The RPI is a powerful  device that can handle the computa-
tional tasks required  for controlling  the induction  machine and collecting  data from 
the sensors. This makes it a more versatile option than a simpler microcontroller.  RPIWebpage1.
Static IP of operator  
SBMA1 
rpm
Rectifier-
Inverter to 
IM
Generator/
Motor
•LoadSBMA2 
V, A.NET 
WebApp  
on AzureWebpage2  of
.azurewebsites.net
Figure 1. General structure of IoT-based control system for Induction Machines. The arrows show
the flow of data.
The following main issues need to be resolved when developing controlled IoT-based
electrical machine systems:
• The connectivity of power equipment to the internet, communication with servers,
software, and databases. The units directly connected are electric motors, power
converters, microcontrollers, sensors, measuring instruments. Other modules are
connected indirectly via a gateway, and there is two-way communication with the
backend system to register devices and collect data.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 7 of 28
• The data management: the acquisition, conversion, storage, retrieval, analysis, pro-
cessing, security, visualization, and presentation of data in real time.
The diagram from Figure 1 shows an IoT-based control system for induction machines.
The central electronic device is the Raspberry Pi (RPI), which communicates with:
• Azure cloud web page
• Sensors connected to single-board microcontrollers SBMA1 and SBMA2
• Rectifier/inverter which drives the induction motor
• Static control web page for direct access of operator
The RPI acts as a bridge between these elements, facilitating data exchange between
the sensors, inverter, induction machine or generator, and the load. It is used in this
IoT-based control system for induction machines for several reasons:
• Power efficiency: The RPI is a low-power device, which is important for embedded
systems like this one. This means that it can run on a small battery or even be powered
directly from the induction machine itself.
• Computational power: The RPI is a powerful device that can handle the computational
tasks required for controlling the induction machine and collecting data from the
sensors. This makes it a more versatile option than a simpler microcontroller.
• Ease of use: The RPI is a relatively easy-to-use device, which makes it a good choice
for developers who are not familiar with embedded systems programming. There are
a large number of resources available for programming the RPI, and it can be easily
connected to a variety of sensors and actuators.
• Versatility: The RPI can be used for a variety of other tasks besides controlling in-
duction machines, such as running web servers, hosting applications, and running
data analysis software. This makes it a good investment for developers who need a
versatile platform.
This system enables remote monitoring and control of induction machines, making
it possible to optimize performance, reduce energy consumption, and improve overall
efficiency. Here is a more detailed explanation of each component in the diagram:
• Raspberry Pi (RPI): A single-board microcomputer that serves as the central electronic
device in the system. It is responsible for collecting data from the sensors, communi-
cating with the cloud and web applications, and controlling the rectifier/inverter.
• Azure cloud web page: A web page hosted in the Azure cloud that provides a user
interface for monitoring and controlling the induction machine. It can be used to
access, visualize, and analyze data from the system.
• Sensors: Sensors that measure various parameters of the induction machine, such as
speed, currents, and voltages.
• Single-board microcontrollers, SBMA1 and SBMA2: Single-board microcontrollers
that interface with the sensors and send data to the RPI.
• Rectifier/inverter: A power converter that converts AC voltage to DC and DC voltage
to AC. It is used to drive the speed and direction of the induction machine.
• Static web page at the operator’s IP: A web page that can be directly accessed by
the operator to monitor and control the induction machine. The static web page
serves two main purposes in the IoT-based control system for induction machines.
(1) Real-time monitoring: The static web page provides a real-time view of the induc-
tion machine’s performance parameters. This information can be used by operators
to monitor the health and condition of the machine, and to identify any potential
problems. (2) Remote control: The static web page can also be used to remotely control
the induction machine. Operators can use the web page to set the machine’s speed,
and other parameters. This capability is particularly useful for operators who are not
physically located near the machine. It offers a more straightforward and accessible
interface for operators who may not require the advanced features of the cloud-based
interfaces. In addition, the static web page can serve as a backup communication chan-
nel in case the internet connection is lost. This ensures that operators can still monitor
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 8 of 28
and control the induction machine even if they are unable to access the cloud-based in-
terfaces. Overall, the static web page plays a crucial role in the overall functionality of
the IoT-based control system for induction machines. It provides real-time monitoring
and remote-control capabilities to operators, while also complementing the dynamic
functionality of the cloud-based interfaces.
Overall, the IoT-based control system for induction machines provides a comprehen-
sive solution for remote monitoring and control of these devices. It can be used to improve
performance, reduce energy consumption, and enhance overall efficiency.
2.1. Structure of Electric Drive System of Induction Motor with IoT
The induction motor IM can be controlled from the stator side, by varying the voltage
and frequency [ 21,22]. During motor operation, three-phase IMs serve duty cycles with
frequent changes in load and speed, including cut-off and reconnection. Thus, controllers
must monitor the performance of IM [ 41]. In the case when the electrical drive system
(EDS) of the induction machine with IoT performs control remotely via the internet, it uses
sensors and generates data via the internet from the feedback of the control system.
In Figure 2, the diagram of the electric drive system of the induction motor with
IoT-based control is shown. This is the architecture of the control system designed in our
Laboratory of Electric Drives. The design and operation were introduced and described
in detail in publication [ 40]. This configuration (Figure 2) establishes the remote-control
system of a three-phase induction motor with IoT using: one single-board microcomputer
Raspberry Pi (RPI), two Single-Board Microcontrollers (SBMA1 and SBMA2), a database
for the managed data with Structured Query Language (SQL) [ 44], and a web application
in Azure cloud platform [45].
• The control system from Figure 2 consists of the following structural modules:
• The three-phase induction motor is supplied by one digitally controlled three-phase
rectifier-inverter, which controls the stator frequency and produces motion of rotation,
which is transmitted to mechanical load.
• The control system: one Control Webpage, one supervisory computer with access
to the Control Webpage, one single-board microcomputer Raspberry Pi (RPI) linked
to the rectifier-inverter which acquires the data from sensors through single-board
microcontrollers SBMA1/SBMA2, and software. The RPI has the role of the local
server which communicates with database by a web application in Azure cloud with
an SQL database for data storage, data processing, and remote control.
• Data acquisition: The rotational speed sensor and load current sensor of the induction
motor transmits data to microcontrollers SBMA1 and SBMA2, respectively.
• Networks: The IoT-based control system for induction machines has installed wired
and wireless networks, including internet, local area Wi-Fi networks, and serial con-
nections. The Internet serves to the users of the static web page hosted on the RPI.
The system uses internet to connect the RPI to the Azure cloud web page. Bluetooth
connectivity is established between RPI and microcontrollers. The RPI communicates
with the rectifier/inverter via a serial connection; the sensors transmit data to the
microcontrollers through serial connection.
Dashed lines show connections to the internet with Wi-Fi network; block diagram
arrows show the bi-directional sending/receiving of data between server-rectifier/
inverter, server-supervisory computer, and one-directional sending of data between
sensor single-board microcontrollers, Arduino SBMA1/SBMA2; solid lines show the
three-phase power supply and the three-phase connection between rectifier/inverter
and induction motor; the orange thick double line is the coupling shaft between
induction motor and load.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 9 of 28
Energies 2024, 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW   9 of 30 
 
 In Figure 2, the diagram of the electric drive system of the induction  motor with IoT-
based control is shown. This is the architecture  of the control system designed  in our La-
boratory  of Electric Drives. The design and operation  were introduced  and described  in 
detail in publication  [40]. This conﬁguration  (Figure 2) establishes  the remote-control  sys-
tem of a three-phase  induction  motor with IoT using: one single-board  microcomputer  
Raspberry  Pi (RPI), two Single-Board  Microcontrollers  (SBMA1 and SBMA2),  a database  
for the managed  data with Structured  Query Language  (SQL) [44], and a web application  
in Azure cloud platform  [45].  
 The control system from Figure 2 consists of the following  structural  modules:  
 The three-phase  induction  motor is supplied  by one digitally controlled  three-phase  
rectiﬁer-inverter,  which controls the stator frequency  and produces  motion of rota-
tion, which is transmitted to mechanical  load.  
 The control system: one Control Webpage,  one supervisory  computer  with access to 
the Control Webpage,  one single-board  microcomputer  Raspberry  Pi (RPI) linked to 
the rectiﬁer-inverter  which acquires the data from sensors through single-board  mi-
crocontrollers  SBMA1/SBMA2,  and software.  The RPI has the role of the local server 
which communicates  with database  by a web application  in Azure cloud with an SQL 
database  for data storage, data processing,  and remote control. 
 Data acquisition:  The rotational  speed sensor and load current sensor of the induction  
motor transmits  data to microcontrollers  SBMA1 and SBMA2, respectively.   
 Networks:  The IoT-based  control system for induction  machines  has installed  wired 
and wireless networks,  including  internet, local area Wi-Fi networks,  and serial con-
nections.  The Internet serves to the users of the static web page hosted on the RPI. 
The system uses internet to connect the RPI to the Azure cloud web page. Bluetooth  
connectivity  is established  between RPI and microcontrollers.  The RPI communicates  
with the rectiﬁer/inverter  via a serial connection;  the sensors transmit data to the mi-
crocontrollers  through serial connection.  
 
Figure 2. Electric drive system of Induction  Motor with IoT-based  control. 
Dashed lines show connections  to the internet with Wi-Fi network;  block diagram 
arrows show the bi-directional  sending/receiving  of data between server-
RECTIFIER/  
INVERTER  
INDUCTION  
MOTOR  IM 
SBMA1 / SBMA2 
RPI / SERVER  
CONTROL  
WEBPAGE  
SUPERVISORY  
COMPUTER  
SOFTWARE  
LOAD 
WI-FI 
OPERATOR  
three-phase  
power supply 
Figure 2. Electric drive system of Induction Motor with IoT-based control.
• The remote control of the induction machine (IM) is initiated from the web interface,
where the RPI receives commands and translates them into signals for the inverter
using the Modbus serial communications protocol [46,47].
Remote control of the IM over the internet uses the supervisory computer and the
microcomputer RPI. The RPI acts as an intermediary between the supervisory computer
and the inverter, translating control commands from the former into signals that the inverter
can understand. To facilitate this communication, a Modbus card is employed to establish
a serial connection between the RPI and the inverter. The Modbus card is necessary
because the inverter utilizes the Modbus serial communications protocol, a standardized
communication protocol commonly used in industrial settings to exchange data between
devices [46,47].
Hardware units are external: a speed encoder for speed feedback and a current sensor
for load current feedback [ 40]. The software runs on the supervisory computer through the
control website, which is accessible at the IP address reserved for laboratory experiments.
The programmed functions in the software code are commands of the operator, selected
from the website such as:
• the frequency command for forward rotation
• the reverse direction command to rotate backwards
• the command to start the rotation
• the end of rotation command
The software monitors the speed during load changes, while the inverter, controlled
by the software, executes the frequency commands [ 40]. Analogue speed and current
signals are converted into digital signals by two microcontrollers, Arduino SBMA1 and
SBMA2, and transmitted to the microcomputer RPI. The SBMA1 receives the speed signal
from the speed encoder and sends it to the RPI, using the Wi-Fi connection and software.
The RPI reads the required frequency from the operator’s website and the actual rotation
frequency of the IM, calculates the difference between the two frequencies and generates
the error signal, which is usually non-zero, as a result of which the RPI reads the error
signal, changes the frequency that the converter has, and, accordingly, corrects speed. Thus,
the error signal is converted into a control signal sent by the RPI to the digital input of the
inverter and corrects the frequency. The required frequency and also, the actual frequency
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 10 of 28
calculated from the feedback signal, are displayed on the operators’ website. Digitized
signals from measurements are stored in the Azure cloud in the SQL database.
2.2. Structure of Double Output Induction Generator with IoT-Based Control System for WECS
The cage rotor construction of induction machines is not suitable for generator oper-
ation, because it needs self-excitation which must be produced by an additional bank of
capacitors [ 43]. On the other hand, the wound rotor induction machine can be supplied
from the stator and from the rotor windings, and thus, received the name of doubly fed
induction machine (DFIM). A thorough investigation has been carried out for the DFIM:
using the feature of doubly controlled machine, the DFIM has increased consideration in
wind generating power plants in WECS. Many times, the DFIM is named double output
induction generator (DOIG), or double fed induction generator (DFIG) [27,28].
The DOIG is frequently installed in wind power plants, where it controls the generated
voltage and frequency and the active and reactive power.
The components of WECS are the turbine, the induction generator, the mechanical
coupling, and the controllers. The wind turbine converts the wind energy to kinetic and the
DOIG converts the kinetic energy to electrical energy. Wind turbines can generate electrical
energy during strong winds, but it is fluctuating [27].
Some wind turbines cannot follow the wind speed and rotate only at a single speed.
There are two ways of operating at a fixed speed: to use a synchronous generator or an
induction generator. Fixed speed turbines have the disadvantage of a lagging power factor
of the grid-connected induction generator and demand large capacitor banks to compensate
for it [ 43]. The energy from the wind is a function of wind speed, and the energy captured
by the turbine propeller is a function of rotor speed and wind speed, thus fixed speed wind
turbines fail to capture the maximum power. In contrast, variable speed DOIG can recover
the maximum energy of the wind.
In the cage induction generator configuration, the power is generated when the
shaft is rotating above the synchronous speed only. In the configuration with DOIG,
electric power is generated at all speeds: higher than synchronous speed and lower than
synchronous speed, too. Thus, the WECS with DOIG functioning at variable speed have
some advantages [28]:
• The rotor excitation voltage and frequency permit a bi-directional flow of electric
power in the rotor, and a slip power recovery, instead of being lost by heating the
windings. This increases generated energy, and efficiency too, are a consequence of an
increased quantity of converted wind power.
• At variable wind speed, the rotor excitation voltage controls the DOIG and generates
constant frequency at the demanded value of the grid. Also, the active power is
generated from the wind power at any time instant, under or above synchronous
speed. The DOIG provides control of reactive power, close to unitary power factor,
and eliminates the need for capacitor banks. Power quality improves because DOIG
connects and disconnects from the grid, without high transient currents during cut-in
or cut-out. The instabilities of wind generate higher order harmonics [ 48,49], which
impacts the generated power quality, especially in fast transient states of the wind, and
also, in weak or isolated autonomous grids [ 35,48]. With the DOIG, the higher order
harmonics are reduced due to the high switching frequency of the power converter
in the rotor, and the levels of the 5th and 7th harmonics are lower [ 50,51]. Causes of
generated distortion and noise at different operating points can be the negative or
close to zero power values when wind speed is above cut-in speed or with scattered
data [48,51].
• The power converter in the rotor has lower ratings because the rotor draws up to 35%
of the rated power of DOIG.
• Mechanical loading reduces because the operation at variable speeds produces lower
stress transferred through the coupling components than in the case of fixed
speed generators.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 11 of 28
A variable speed WECS is shown in Figure 3, in an experimental configuration [ 27,28,39],
with the induction generator in DOIG connection. The wind turbine which drives the rotor
shaft of DOIG is emulated in laboratory by a variable speed dc motor. The wind turbine rotates
the DOIG in the same direction as the air gap synchronous magnetic field. The rotor windings
of DOIG receive excitation voltage fed by a digital rectifier-inverter from the three-phase
power supply. The inverter controls the excitation voltage and frequency in the rotor. The
stator windings are connected to the three-phase power supply and send the generated electric
power to the grid. The control of rotor voltage and frequency during fluctuating speeds of the
wind turbine is required in order to generate constant volts and hertz in the stator windings.
Energies 2024, 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW   12 of 30 
 
  
Figure 3. Wind Energy Conversion  System with Double Output Induction  Generator  and with IoT-
based control. 
At speeds ω lower than synchronous  ω1, ω < ω1, the slip power is supplied  to the 
rotor and the generated  power is sent to the grid. At speeds higher than synchronous  
speed, ω > ω1, the slip power is recovered  from the rotor, is sent back to the excitation  
source and the generated  power is sent from stator to grid [28]. Controlling  the rotor volt-
age and frequency  for rotor excitation  results in the control of voltage and frequency  gen-
erated at the stator side. The generated  active power at the stator has a linear variation  
with the excitation  frequency  of the rotor [28]. At speeds higher than the synchronous  
speed, ω < ω1, the eﬃciency increases  when there are increases  in the wind speed.  
Thus, in wind power plants, the preferred  electrical  machine is the DOIG, because of 
its capability  to regulate the unexpected  wind speed ﬂuctuations  using the slip excitation  
frequency  control technique  [27,28].  
Figure 3 is the block diagram of the DOIG driven by a wind turbine and with the 
controlled  system over the internet. The stator windings  of the DOIG are connected  to the 
three-phase  power supply via a voltage three-phase  transformer,  while the rotor windings  
are connected  to an ac/dc/ac rectiﬁer/inverter  [39].  
The slip frequency  control consists of injecting  at the rotor windings  of DOIG a three-
phase voltage at slip frequency  f2, as in Equation  (1) 
f2 = f1 − f  (1) 
ω2 = ω1 − ω  (2) 
where: 
 f1 is the power network frequency  and produces  the synchronous  speed of air-gap 
magnetic  ﬁeld ω1 
 f is the angular rotational  frequency  of the shaft, which is imposed  by the driving 
force of the wind, and is computed  from the mechanical  rotational  speed of rotor ω, 
 f2 is the slip frequency  of the voltage injected in the rotor windings  and produces  the 
rotational  speed ω2 of the magnetic  ﬁeld of the rotor  
Therefore,  
f2 = s · f1  (3) 
f2, ω2 
DOIG 
Figure 3. Wind Energy Conversion System with Double Output Induction Generator and with
IoT-based control.
At speeds ωlower than synchronous ω1,ω<ω1, the slip power is supplied to the
rotor and the generated power is sent to the grid. At speeds higher than synchronous speed,
ω>ω1, the slip power is recovered from the rotor, is sent back to the excitation source
and the generated power is sent from stator to grid [ 28]. Controlling the rotor voltage and
frequency for rotor excitation results in the control of voltage and frequency generated
at the stator side. The generated active power at the stator has a linear variation with
the excitation frequency of the rotor [ 28]. At speeds higher than the synchronous speed,
ω<ω1, the efficiency increases when there are increases in the wind speed.
Thus, in wind power plants, the preferred electrical machine is the DOIG, because of
its capability to regulate the unexpected wind speed fluctuations using the slip excitation
frequency control technique [27,28].
Figure 3 is the block diagram of the DOIG driven by a wind turbine and with the
controlled system over the internet. The stator windings of the DOIG are connected to the
three-phase power supply via a voltage three-phase transformer, while the rotor windings
are connected to an ac/dc/ac rectifier/inverter [39].
The slip frequency control consists of injecting at the rotor windings of DOIG a
three-phase voltage at slip frequency f 2, as in Equation (1)
f2= f1−f (1)
ω2=ω1−ω (2)
where:
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 12 of 28
• f1is the power network frequency and produces the synchronous speed of air-gap
magnetic field ω1
• f is the angular rotational frequency of the shaft, which is imposed by the driving force
of the wind, and is computed from the mechanical rotational speed of rotor ω,
• f2is the slip frequency of the voltage injected in the rotor windings and produces the
rotational speed ω2of the magnetic field of the rotor
Therefore,
f2= s·f1 (3)
where s is the slip of the DOIG. A three-phase transformer adjusts the voltage magnitude
of the grid at 380 V [27,42].
The DOIG has a bidirectional flow of power in the rotor: at super-synchronous speeds
ω>ω1the rotor sends power to the grid; at sub-synchronous speeds ω<ω1the rotor
absorbs power from grid. Thus, the DOIG works well at both sub-synchronous and
super-synchronous speeds, within a speed range of ±35%·ω1. The power converter in the
rotor regulates the voltage amplitude, frequency, and phase angle [ 27], and the generated
frequency at the stator side is constant, even if the turbine turns at a variable speed ω[28].
The ratings of the power converter are up to 35% of the rated power of the DOIG, the
losses are lower, the efficiency is higher, and the investment of initial capital for installed
equipment is reduced. By using the DOIG technology, the ratings of wind park installations
reduce, the efficiency improves, and it reduces the duration of the return of invested
capitals [ 28]. Because the various magnitudes in WECS are difficult to access and measure,
they can be estimated using the state space model of the DOIG wind turbine and using
a nonlinear observer, a linearization near the operating point [ 27], or using Lyapunov
stability theory [52].
Dashed lines show connection to the internet with a Wi-Fi network; block diagram
arrows show the bi-directional sending and receiving of data between server and recti-
fier/inverter and server and supervisory computer; other block diagram arrows show the
one-directional sending data between sensors and single board microcontrollers Arduino,
SBMA1/SBMA2; solid lines show the three-phase power supply and the three-phase con-
nections between rectifier/inverter and DOIG; the thick double line is the coupling shaft of
the wind turbine and DOIG.
As mentioned above, some modules are present in both configurations of the electric
drive system with induction motor (Figure 2) and of the power generation system with
DOIG (Figure 3): the rectifier/inverter, the induction machine, the supervisory computer,
the operator website, the microcomputer RPI, the two microcontrollers Arduino SBMA1
and SBMA2, the speed sensors, the current sensors, and the Wi-Fi Internet connection.
3. Applications of IoT-Based Control for Electric Drive Systems
When the integration of IoT technologies is in industry, some features refer to real-
time processes, such as: data acquisition, process observability, auto-ID, decision making,
and intelligent production systems [ 38,53,54]. For the web-based remote monitoring and
automation of manufacturing processes, Programmable Logic Controller PLC modular
units are installed in open architectures and connected to the web using Ethernet and
Internet [15,25].
In Table 2 are selected cases of industrial applications of IoT-based control of electric
drive systems with induction motors with specifications of technical aspects.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 13 of 28
Table 2. Technical aspects of applications of IoT-based control of Electric Drive Systems.
Control and Monitoring Main TopicsTechnical Aspects (Hardware, Sensors, Control, Data
Acquisition, Communication, Software) (*)CitationsReference
Number
IM operation control.
Design of IoT-based control system.
The IoT-based control system of IM acquires feedback data
from sensors, sends/ receives commands over internet.Experiments with connection to IoT.
Microcomputer Raspberry Pi,
Modbus communication protocol,
Microcontrollers Arduino,
Optical encoders speed sensors,
Inhouse developed software.9 [24]
IM performance control.
Monitoring and remote control of industrial IMs design and
implementation.
Sending commands, sending/receiving data to database.Design of IoT-based control system.
Microcomputer Raspberry Pi,
Modbus communication protocol,
Microcontrollers Arduino,
Optical encoders speed sensors,
Inhouse developed software.1 [40]
Experimental testing of an IM via application programming
interface API
The experimental system is implemented and presented to
learners.Laboratory experiments with IoT access.
Inverter Variable Speed Drive,
Ethernet I/O Module,
MQTT communication protocol.
Website-based application programming interface API
platform,
Data acquisition for IoT with LabVIEW.2 [55]
IM performance control.
Monitoring vibrations and temperature conditions of a fan
cooler.IoT gateway ESP8266 Wi-Fi module Arduino with integrated
TCP/IP protocol.
Temperature sensor, vibration sensor.
Blynk server and application software.4 [56]
IM with PWM inverter and direct torque control with space
vector.
The IoT controls the start-stop of IM by a mobile application
through Wi-fi.
Obtained low harmonic distortion of voltage.Wireless control of the RPM of the IM.
IoT ESP8266 Wi-Fi Module Arduino,
Android Application using Blynk server.
MATLAB simulation.0 [57]
IM with smart field-oriented vector control of inverter
improves voltage quality by eliminating harmonics
The sampled and quantified output signal in real time is sent
to the IoT by the user monitoring interface and
communicated to other industrial systems.
Warnings of misfunctions, protects, and eliminates
dangerous situations.A PC as Coprocessor or a Single Board Computer.
DSP Processor TMS320F28335 for control logic of inverter,
Current sensor interfaced with microcontroller Atmega8,
Output data transferred to server by coprocessor.
Cloud space for backup.
Python software sends data to Linux terminal window.1 [58]
Software development for control of IM and interface to IoT.
Tuning parameters for requested operation.TMS320C2000 digital signal controller platform.
TSM320C2000 microcontroller,
Industrial Ethernet network,
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) configuration
or the IP (Internet Protocol) version
Software-design.0 [59]
Single phase IM performance control.
Monitoring speed and temperature with the control software
of inverter.
The acquired data are stored in the cloud.IoT gateway ESP8266 Wi-Fi Module Arduino microcontroller,
Adafruit IO platform for webpage,
Thermocouple temperature sensor.
Hall Effect current sensors,
Power factor zero crossing detecting using LM324 operational
amplifier and IC 4030 XOR gate.
MATLAB Simulink for motor speed control.3 [60]
IM monitoring system for compaction of materials.
Analyzing real-time data of an intelligent vibrator roller.A laptop,
Acceleration sensor Unified Logic ULT1006,
10/100 Ethernet Port uCard,
AD7799BRUZ digital-to-analog converter,
Remote data management center GPRS,
Microsoft SQL server,
Software in C#.0 [61]
Condition monitoring, analyzing IM status.
Sensing current, voltage, temperature, vibrations.
Data collection, transmission to cloud, processing.
Maintenance decisions and fault prediction.Raspberry Pi 3 for data processing,
Arduino Microcontroller for data acquisition and A/D
conversion.
LM35 temperature sensor,
MiniSense 100NM vibration sensor,
Data acquisition NI-USB6009, with LabVIEW TM interface.
Microsoft Excel, MATLAB TM data analysis.17 [62]
(*) The names of the manufacturers, cities, and countries from where the equipment was sourced, and
the version numbers of the software, are published in the documents from the same line and column
“Reference Number”.
The implementation of induction motors control uses commands sent and received over
IoT and are accompanied by details of design, with experimental tests and results, [ 24,40]. The
architecture of the experimental systems with internet-based access to laboratory equipment,
for the testing of induction motors via an application programming interface API and with
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 14 of 28
Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT) communication protocol, can be presented to
learners as a workshop [55].
IoT-based control systems can address vibration and temperature interference to
improve the efficiency of electric motors and generators [ 56]. Further involvement of
IoT in monitoring and control installations with induction motors, with remote drive
inverters and with software for handling the acquired data, creates smart electrical drives
and increases the efficiency and reliability of electrical machines [ 56]. Using a mobile app
via Wi-Fi and IoT, an operator can control a three-phase induction motor by applying the
direct torque control method, with space vector and pulse width modulation (PWM) for the
inverter [ 57]. The obtained results show low harmonic distortion of the output voltage from
the inverter [ 57]. A three-phase inverter with space vectors and field-oriented control, which
improves the quality of voltage by eliminating harmonics, is installed for obtaining the IoT
operation [ 58]. The output signal is sampled and quantified in real time, is communicated
to other industrial systems within a real-time remote monitoring configuration, is made
available for operation, and also, is provided to the user interface [ 58]. Due to additional
features of smartness and self-learning, this kind of inverter can analyze voltages and
frequencies, and predict and inform the operator, thus helping in critical and safe operation
of the system over the IoT [ 58]. If a warning, or malfunction occurs, the inverter can control
and eliminate dangerous situations [58].
The software that implements the control for the induction motor for the requested
operation, the fine-tuning of the parameters and the interface to the IoT, can be built by
using personal computers [ 59]. In the case of controlling a single-phase induction motor,
the IoT monitors parameters such as speed and temperature, and the data received from
the sensors is stored in the cloud [ 60]. The speed control system including the inverter, is
simulated in the PSIM power electronics software [60].
Another application refers to a monitoring system for compaction operation, which is
equipped with an intelligent IoT-based vibratory roller, with the designed hardware for the
real-time monitoring, including the sensors and the signal conditioning modules [ 61]. The
evaluation and analysis of the compaction real-time data were integrated into a prototype
system with IoT for further development [61].
To monitor and determine the condition of an induction machine, the process consists
of detecting currents, voltages, temperatures, and vibrations, then the data is processed
for fault prediction and maintenance decisions [ 62]. More specifically, data received from
sensors is transmitted wirelessly to the cloud, processed, downloaded from the cloud, and
analyzed [ 62]. Other aspects include IoT-based energy management at the production
level and a framework is needed to integrate energy data [ 63]. With IoT capabilities,
an integration framework where real-time information is recorded, creates a real-time
information integration service, providing new IoT models [64].
Real-time decisions for fault diagnosis can be executed using online monitoring for
prevention and recovery of failures, thus obtaining accurate information and improved
performance. In Table 3 are selected cases of industrial applications of IoT-based diagnosis
of induction motors with specifications of technical aspects.
The technology of monitoring systems received influence from the IoT, mainly due to
networking of equipment [ 65]. Thus, predictive maintenance can be done noninvasively , using
temperature and current sensors and computer simulation for digital twins of thermomagnetic
behavior [ 65]. Because induction motors are important parts of equipment in many industries,
for their monitoring, an industrial wireless ammeter based on Zigbee technology is proposed
as a tool for maintenance, and to identify when the IMs work unusually and to prevent
failures [ 66]. This technology allows a wireless sensor network with remote measurements of
currents to monitor the power supply . By means of wireless ammeters, and with open-source
software, users can decide about machinery maintenance. In many industrial applications
with IoT, the predictive maintenance of equipment by continuous monitoring and estimation
of real risk situations involves sensors, connected to the internet, sending data to the cloud,
from where data can be retrieved and visualized for real-time remote maintenance [67].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 15 of 28
Table 3. Technical Aspects of industrial applications of IoT-based diagnosis and maintenance of
induction motors.
Faults Detection and Diagnosis TopicsTechnical Aspects (Hardware, Sensors, Control, Data Acquisition,
Communication, Software) (*)CitationsReference
Number
Predictive maintenance with currents and temperature sensors.
Computer simulation for digital twins studies thermomagnetic
behavior in a non-invasive wayESP32 microcontroller,
Signal conditioning circuitry,
Cloud storage via Wi-Fi,
Hioki power quality analyzer,
Clamp current sensor SCT-013,
Negative Temperature Coefficient NTC thermistor, thermocouple,
Thermal camera (FLIR T620),
Communications with the web server Hypertext Transfer Protocol
Secure HTTPS,
Web server Heroku Postgres cloud software.2 [65]
Currents’ digital measurements for monitoring IM.
Measured data by wireless ammeters are sent to IoT for
preventive maintenance.Raspberry Pi 3B,
Arduino Uno for data acquisition,
Split core current sensor Magnelab,
Wireless connection Xbee ProS2B,
Current clamp meter Fluke 337.1 [66]
Predictive maintenance by continuous monitoring.
Sending data to cloud, retrieving, visualizing data in real-time,
and IIoT.Server of MGb memory capacity,
Large number of sensors,
Acquiring data and recording in data storage,
Prognostics and Health Management PHM algorithms.129 [67]
Predictive maintenance by universal monitoring.IoT gateway, NGS PlantOne system,
IoT nodes with sensors,
Temperature sensors,
Digital three-axes accelerometer-vibration sensors,
Network communication IEEE802.15.4, protocol 6LoWPAN,
Ethernet communication,
Fast Fourier Transform algorithm software.217 [68]
Failure detection and speed control.Microcomputer Raspberry Pi,
User interface-webpage,
three-phase inverter,
Currents, voltage, temperature sensor,
Python programming.4 [69]
Faults diagnosis and online monitoring IM.
Optimized performance for IMs,
Improved prediction of failures, increased reliability, reduced
costs for O&M.CONTACT platform and software for IoT,
TECO A510 variable frequency drive,
Chain Tail ZKB010AA magnetic brake,
Machine learning and Random Forest algorithm,
Visualize faults of the motor status and cyber-attacks on the networks,
MQTT protocol.
Wilcoxon 786A accelerometers-vibration signals.67 [70]
Faults protection with vibration and currents’ sensorsNode MCU microcontroller IoT platform,
Smart control panel with IoT, with manual and automatic mode, for
resistive, inductive, capacitive appliances.
Temperature sensor, vibration sensor,
MATLAB simulation.9 [71]
Failure prediction with vibration and temperature sensors.
Real Time Condition Monitoring System.
Vibration signals give information on healthy and damaged
IMs.Cloud server,
Waspmote Pro v1.2 smart sensor microcontroller,
Piezoelectric vibration sensor (accelerometer), temperature sensor,
Wirelessly data transfer from sensors,
Esri cloud computing platform.28 [72]
Diagnosis of voltages and currents unbalances.
Web-based condition monitoring with wireless sensors
network and IoT.
Software development.IoT gateway ESP8266 Wi-Fi module Arduino with built-in TCP/IP
protocol.
Sensors: vibration, humidity, temperature,
Microcontroller Arduino ATmega 328P ,
Data transmission through nRF-24L01 narrowband transceiver,
Wireless sensor network WSN.5 [73]
Diagnosis with current signature analysis,
Propagation of fault signals from motors to IoT.
Fault signals of very low amplitude and close to the
fundamental frequency interfere with environmental noise.Analysis of distributed observations for diagnosis.
Measurement current sensors.
Current spectra analysis software.0 [74]
Smart cut-in and cut-off of IM with back-up system to decrease
downtime and increase efficiency.IoT gateway ESP8266 Wi-fi Module Arduino,
Arduino Uno Board,
Sensors: temperature, vibration, smoke,
LCD Screen.3 [75]
(*) The names of the manufacturers, cities, and countries from where the equipment was sourced, and
the version numbers of the software, are published in the documents from the same line and column
“Reference Number”.
An IIoT solution, the NGS-PlantOne system [ 68], is designed for universal monitoring
of electrical machines through IoT sensing devices, thus allowing predictive maintenance,
for real electrical power plants. The installed system, with many IoT sensing devices,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 16 of 28
performs monitoring of temperature and vibration, and has been operated and offered
solutions for predictive maintenance and monitoring operation of IM [68].
A microcomputer RPI, current, voltage, and temperature sensors are used to detect
faults and simultaneously monitor the rotational speed of an IM [ 69]. Data is sent to the
RPI, processed, and stored in a database, then commands are generated to control the
system [ 69]. IoT in applications with electric machines offers web-based monitoring and
fault diagnosis for induction motor operation, optimized performance, improved fault
prediction, increased reliability, and reduced costs for O&M [70].
A smart control panel, using vibration and temperature sensors for resistive, inductive,
capacitive, and IM devices, provides operation with intelligent motor protection, fault
analysis, and protection techniques, combining local and IoT control, in both manual and
automatic modes [ 71]. To acquire information that predict a motor’s failure, the temperature
and vibrations of induction motors are analyzed in real time using IoT [ 72]. By analyzing
the vibration signals it is possible to detect the differences between the operation of a
healthy and damaged motor [72].
Diagnosis algorithms for condition monitoring and solving voltage imbalance using
an IoT gateway and wireless sensors have been developed in [ 73]. Other applications of IoT
in electrical machine diagnostics include fault detection with current signature analysis and
the propagation of fault signals from motors to IoT [ 74]. Error signals that have a very low
amplitude and are close to the fundamental frequency are transmitted from one machine to
another and are interfered with by environmental noise [ 74]. The distributed observations
are analyzed to improve the reliability and quality of diagnosis [74].
Monitoring must be continuous for preventive maintenance of industrial IMs in order
to detect performance deviations and the prospect of hardware failure. An intelligent
shutdown and recovery tool with backup system, which can automatically cut off the
engine before it exceeds threshold values, and thus, avoid damages, can then initialize a
backup system, and thus, reduces downtime, and increases efficiency and reliability [75].
4. Applications of IoT-Based Control in Energy Generation from WECS
IoT technology in control systems for RES generation remote monitors optimizes
production and saves energy. The price of generated electric energy depends on fuel
costs, electric load demand, and on installation limitations. The smart grids can optimize
the energy costs and decrease the peak load demands [ 6,34]. In RES generating units,
the IoT supports real-time decisions regarding the monitoring, performance, efficiency,
prevention, and recovery of failures. Operators can access real-time performance data,
change settings, run diagnostics remotely, and perform maintenance. WECS embedded
with sensors acquire and send real-time data of wind speed, turbine speed, temperature,
vibration, and energy generated to the IoT, to the administrator, and make data available
to other wind power plants and other smart grids. The data are processed for economic
dispatch optimization, for performing predictive maintenance, for early detection, and for
deciding failure recoveries in an efficient way, as well as warnings for the system. The
optimization of wind turbine performance is based on data acquired from sensors and
maximizes the energy generation depending on wind situations. Data are analyzed to
forecast and manage energy generation, to integrate wind energy into the grid, and to
optimize wind energy penetration. IoT sensors can monitor environmental conditions,
detect extreme weather situations, avoid safety risks, and can keep operations safe.
Hybrid power plants interconnected to Internet of Renewable Energy (IoRE) can lower
downtime and O&M costs by early scheduling repairs. The emerging Internet of Energy
(IoE) is presented in terms of architecture, energy routers, benefits, and challenges of its
operation in large-scale distributed architecture with the inclusion of RES [76].
In Table 4 are selected cases of IoT-based control of energy generation from WECS
with technical aspects.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 17 of 28
Table 4. Technical aspects of IoT-based control for energy generation from WECS.
Control and Monitoring Main TopicsTechnical Aspects (Hardware, Sensors, Control, Data
Acquisition, Communication, Software) (*)CitationsReference
Number
Performance control of WECS and communication networks.Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol TCP/IP ,
Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP ,
Simple mail transfer protocol SMTP ,
MATLAB simulation of faults scenarios.3 [77]
Performance monitoring and remote control over IoT of WECS.Microcomputer Raspberry Pi,
Modbus communication protocol,
Microcontrollers Arduino,
Optical encoders speed sensors.7 [39]
Web-based remote condition monitoring.
Smart sensors network, data acquisition, supervisory control,
security.Computer based distributed control system (DCS) ABB
Ability™ 800xA gateway,
Intelligent Electronic Devices (IEDs) protection relays, meters,
and monitoring,
Microprocessor based relay ABB REM 615,
Internet switch/router.
Modbus protocol.12 [78]
Smart hybrid energy grids with IoT.
Large scale and small-scale energy producers from RES.
Feasibility and security with ICT, IoT, IoE.Control system of distributed energy station: measuring
devices, controller, actuator.
The controller has a hardware platform and an application
software platform.
SCADA system, I/O module, communication module.
Upper computer layer: engineer station, operator station,
database server.31 [79]
Hybrid wind-photovoltaic grid monitoring and grid
integration using ICTEnercon WECS,
SCADA system, data acquisition and monitoring,
Open-loop and closed loop control for wind turbines and wind
park.143 [80]
Power quality in microgrids.
Neutral current compensation using voltage source inverter.
Communication and connection to cloud.Cloud server ThingSpeak for hardware integration with
Raspberry Pi and Arduino Uno with Application
Programming Interface (API) functions.
IoT platform.
Modbus Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol
TCP/IP for local communication.
Message Queuing Telemetry Transport protocol MQTT for
Global communication
Interface to MATLAB ThingSpeak toolbox to retrieve cloud
data.12 [81]
Power quality from WECS.
Monitoring WECS, circumventing faults in dc-link capacitor of
PWM inverter.Software for proportional integral PI and space vector pulse
width modulation SVPWM inverter,
Industrial IoT hardware prototype,
Data processing with Arduino Uno board
Integrated development environment IDE,
Liquid crystal display LCD.
Data link with global system for mobile GSM module SIM
Card,
SIM800L module in cellular phone,
Global packet radio service GPRS.
Libraries of Arduino IDE: Adafruit FONA Library AFL,
Software Serial Library SSL, Liquid Crystal Library LCL.3 [82]
Detection of short circuits in windings of WECS and failures
detection using IIoT.LINDA is hosting in an Intel Xeon server,
Lapisco Image Interface Platform for Application Development
LINDA tool,
Linux Ubuntu 16.04 64-bit operating system, Java 1.8.0 and
Python 3.
Three-axis vibration sensor accelerometer,
Libraries: TensorFlow and Keras.
Random Forest and Local Block Pattern combination.3 [83]
Fault detection in power distribution systems.
Localization of faults using IoT and data from cloud.Cloud server through edge device ED.
Data sent to database in server.
Current sensors,
Transmission control protocol/internet protocol TCP/IP ,
MATLAB/Simulink simulation.15 [84]
(*) The names of the manufacturers, cities, and countries from where the equipment was sourced, and
the version numbers of the software, are published in the documents from the same line and column
“Reference Number”.
The performance of interconnected wind farms using communication networks and
with different scenarios can be simulated in MATLAB [ 77]. The structure of an experi-
mental IoT-based control system for WECS is in [ 39]. Centralized control in microgrids
involves voltage control, power quality, surveillance, and active power and reactive power
sharing [ 78]. Smart sensors are developed for remote condition monitoring and are in-
tegrated within distributed control of microgrid systems with IoT [ 78]. In addition, in a
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 18 of 28
microgrid, automation includes data acquisition, access to a user-friendly man–machine
interface, supervisory control, and physical and cybersecurity with authentication and
access control [78].
The integration in one hybrid system of the large-scale energy producers with many
small energy producers, such as rooftop photovoltaic panels, wind farms, or solar plants,
become a feasible structure by using the IoT and IoE, as well as ICT and digitalization [ 79].
For data acquisition and remote monitoring, various information and communication tech-
nologies are introduced for hybrid wind and photovoltaic systems, such as SCADA [ 80].
A multi-microgrid system connected to an IoT platform can improve imbalance and com-
pensate for the neutral current by using voltage source inverters [ 81]. The microgrid has
two layers of communication to connect to the cloud server: it uses modbus transmission
control protocol/internet protocol (TCP/IP) for local communication and uses the Message
Queuing Telemetry Transport Protocol (MQTT) for global communication [81].
Usually, the wind power plants are situated in remote areas or offshore, thus, WECS
condition monitoring must be resolved using IoT [ 82]. An industrial IoT algorithm with
associated hardware prototype monitors the condition of WECS in the real-time environ-
ment [ 82]. The algorithm includes a proportional-integral (PI) vector control with pulse
width modulation PWM to minimize ripples of output voltages, solve voltage asymmetry,
increase power quality, avoid errors in the dc-link capacitor of the PWM converter, and
monitor WECS [82].
Detection of short circuits in windings of WECS using vibration data to avoid wind
turbine failure [ 83], is made by using Lapisco Image Interface for Application Development
(LINDA) web application: it contains one system in Java which runs the web service and
achieves the sending and processing of images between devices and workstations of the
platform in a computational cloud; a second system is a database in PostgreSQL for storing
the algorithms (extractors and classifiers) [ 83]. LINDA is a generic tool, which can solve
many problems, not only of wind turbines. A cloud-based IoT solution for recognition,
identification, and localization of faults in power distributed systems, can sense multiple
simultaneous faults using multiple current sensor devices [84].
5. Other Energy Applications of IoT Control
5.1. Energy Harvesting from Other Sources
In Table 5, selected emerging technologies for energy conversion related to IoT control
are shown.
Biodegradable, harmless to the ecosystem, fiber-based materials, like paper, become
paper-based triboelectric nanogenerators and show outcomes for different energy collecting
applications, such as high-productivity energy collecting sensors for the IoT [ 85]. Such
materials are present in the so called “green” IoT devices [85].
Energy harvesters and power conditioning units are required for remote sensors and
actuators in IoT applications. A linear induction machine (LIM) operating as a generator
harvests electric energy from kinetic energy of a moving conductive body [ 86]. Since LIMs
are moving bodies, a layer of a conductive coating such as copper increases the efficiency
of the harvester [ 86]. A wind energy harvesting device for low power requests, based on
piezoelectric effect, converts the kinetic into electric energy [ 87]. The wind generator’s
shaft is connected to a converter of rotary-to-linear motion, which produces mechanical
vibrations, and the piezoelectric stack generates electric voltage. The power generated from
the wind energy harvester, for different thickness of piezoelectric material and wind speeds,
is analogous to the third power of wind speed and can be used for IoT connected devices.
Wind energy harvesting is employed to collect energy and supply low power electronic
systems connected to IoT systems, such as sensors, surveillance devices, health monitoring
instrumentation, and manufacturing processes [ 87]. A prototype for a mini three-phase
wind energy harvester is accompanied by the analysis of operation, the deduction of the
characteristic parameters using an equivalent electromechanical model, and the verification
of accuracy of the prototype [88].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 19 of 28
Table 5. Emerging technologies for energy conversion control and IoT.
Emerging Technologies Main Topic Specifics of IoT Control Citations Reference Number
Paper-based triboelectric nanogeneratorsPower supply for IoT components from
green IoT devices217 [85]
Harvester Linear induction generatorHarvesting performance increases with
applied conductive coating (copper)6 [86]
Wind energy harvesting piezoelectric deviceThe generated power depends on thickness
of piezoelectric material and wind speed7 [87]
Wind energy mini-three-phase harvester prototypeAnalysis, parameter deduction, equivalent
model, prototyping6 [88]
Energy harvester from very low ambient energyMeasurements of combined piezoelectric
and thermoelectric generation show
extended battery lifetime of IoT end nodes3 [89]
Wind-driven energy harvester with iron shield and
magnetic poles rotor.Autonomous IoT-based energy harvesting
system for humidity and temperature
monitoring systems6 [90]
Triboelectric nanogeneratorPower supply for small devices, sensors,
recharging batteries.
Self-powered IoT devices9/0 [20,91]
Smart energy harvester IoT networks power supplies 4 [92]
Solar installation with IoT Solar array trackers with IoT 10 [93]
Photovoltaic generation with IoTMonitoring photovoltaics in decentralized
remote plants6 [94]
Experimental IoT system for PV generation,
monitors voltage, current, power, and measures
meteorological variables.Software for connecting to internet,
Data sets from measurements,
Data storage locally and in the cloud.25 [95]
Other applications of energy harvesting for very low ambient energy include the
results from measurements inside cargo containers, which allow the joint piezoelectric and
thermoelectric generation to extend the lifetime of batteries of the IoT end nodes [89].
A wind-driven energy harvesting system, designed with a rotor with pairs of magnetic
poles and with an iron shield to increase magnetic flux density, was designed for an IoT-
based monitoring system of humidity and temperature [ 90]. The obtained energy is in
the range of mW and can be valorized in autonomous IoT monitoring systems for smart
agriculture applications [90].
The harvested kinetic energy, ambient energy, piezoelectric energy, and triboelectric
energy are converted to electrical energy by small generators, which are used as power
suppliers to small devices, sensors, or for recharging batteries for IoT components. Tribo-
electric nanogenerators, which have simple manufacturing and are lightweight, are new
energy topics which emerged with the development of IoT [ 20]. Further developments
involve a triboelectric nanogenerator for self-powered IoT devices [ 91], and a smart energy
harvester system for IoT networks [92].
There are solar array trackers in solar installations connected to IoT [ 93] and also,
for the monitoring of photovoltaic generation in decentralized power plants using the
IoT [ 94]. An IoT system of low-cost for photovoltaics, that monitors voltage, current, power,
and measures weather conditions, connects to the internet, uses open software, creates a
measurement dataset, stores it locally and in the cloud database, and uses the network time
protocol to synchronize device clocks [ 95]. Thus, experiments with this system showed
reliability for the production of smart photovoltaic systems [ 95]. Photovoltaic panels
controlled by IoT can function as a power supply for induction motors, with high power
generation and low cost [96].
5.2. IoT in Energy Education and Other Sectors
IoT was introduced into the educational sciences as a continuation and evolution to
existing and recognized teaching and learning techniques, which are distance learning, the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 20 of 28
use of e-learning platforms, modernization of education technologies, and project-based
learning with simulated experiments [97,98].
To meet the expectations and demands of IoT-based technologies, these must be in-
cluded in academic laboratory experiments [ 99], so that learners gain knowledge about their
technical scientific basis, how they are applied in practice, and how they can extend them to
industry [ 100,101]. A good curriculum must cover aspects of teaching techniques close to
actual professional activities, must concentrate on theoretical and simulated strategies, and
should meet high standards and expectations of all stakeholders including learners, grad-
uates, and lecturers [ 102]. Also, knowledge of IoT technologies will prepare internships
where students can use IoT [ 103] or offer access to education and work to underrepresented
groups of people and to teachers’ training [104].
In Table 6 selected aspects of energy education which apply knowledge about IoT-
based control of electrical machines are shown.
Table 6. Energy education in IoT control of electrical machines.
Energy Education Main Topics Specifics of IoT-Based Control Citations Reference Number
Laboratory experiments Remote system for workshops to learners 2 [55]
Laboratory tests on hybrid microgrid with
sensors and controlIoT-based monitoring the hybrid RES grid
with security of data6 [105]
IoT in academic laboratoryExperimental IoT based controlled electric
motion drive.Research and development of
induction generators in WECS.5, 7 [24,39]
Recovery from power shutdownExperiments for training operators in control
center of power units26 [106]
Energy demand in educational institution IoT-based energy management of buildings 0 [107]
Energy management in smart buildings Deep learning and IoT 98 [12]
Real-time monitoring crop growSensors and multi-spectral cameras
connected to IoT.9 [108]
To reduce the impact of the COVID pandemic on students’ education, a remote
laboratory system was developed, which was able to safely and effectively support practical
lessons and applied experiments. Such initiatives are important because they offer hands-on
experience so as to prepare the student’s learning experience for post-campus jobs [55].
Another experimental IoT-based control system which monitors a microgrid simulated
in a laboratory test bench consists of diverse RES, loads, and wireless sensors [ 105]. The
internet allows monitoring and controlling devices by using a mobile application, which
includes a security software for system protection against cyber-attacks at several levels,
encryption and decryption of data, authentication of users, firewall and detection and
prevention of network intrusion [105].
The starting of new IoT-based experiments in academic laboratories for the education
of students aims for the enrichment of studies in energy engineering and better prepared
engineers for the job market [ 24]. From an educational viewpoint, selected topics of research
and development of IoT can be considered in smart control systems with electrical machines
for energy generation from wind and for electric motion drives [39].
By online monitoring, deduction of real-time decisions for fault diagnosis, prevention
and recovery of failures, and power restauration can be obtained [ 106]. Experiments for
recovery from power shutdown are introduced for the training of the operators in control
centers of power generating units [106].
Other aspects show the IoT-based control introduced for the demand-side management
system of an educational institution to minimize the electricity consumption. For the
monitoring of energy demand, IoT-based smart demand management system hardware
was developed in an academic RES laboratory. By prioritizing the photovoltaics generated
from solar energy during peak hours and using the shifting and rescheduling of the electric
loads, a significantly lower electricity cost and lower peak demand was obtained, with
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 21 of 28
educational benefits for the students and for the institute [ 107]. By using IoT a more
effective energy management in smart buildings can be obtained [12,14].
A system composed of a microcomputer Raspberry Pi RPI, with sensors and multi-
spectral cameras, was set to acquire crop image data, at specific timing intervals during the
spring, and evaluate crop growth [ 108]. The system was connected to IoT-based sensors
for real-time crop monitoring. Many acquired images were processed to extract plant
characteristics and markers, representing crop growth, health, and interaction with the
weather [108].
Integrating IoT into energy education of students enhances technical skills, fosters
critical thinking, and problem solving. It introduces students to careers in the emerging
fields of energy conversion and management, where IoT technologies are gaining an
increasingly important role.
6. Discussion
A comparison between the different topics that are published can be made from more
points of view and criteria. One criterion is the interest of researchers and readers in the
topics and disciplines so far. For this criterion we used the citation numbers as they have
been included in the respective “Citations” columns of Tables 1–6. The second criterion
of interest is the technology used to implement the control systems of electrical machines
with IoT. For this criterion we searched in the selected publications for technical data
related to hardware, sensors, data collection, conversion of analogue signals to digital, data
transmission networks, storage, processing, data search, and software. In Tables 2–4 we
have compiled and classified the technical details describing these elements.
The citation numbers of retrieved and selected publications, which are shown in
Tables 1–6, confirm the awareness and interest of readers, scientists, and researchers, to
become informed and contribute to the issues of IoT-based control of electrical machines.
Based on the number of referrals, we find that, so far, the following issues have taken
the lead.
Among the most studied topics of induction motors is the design of IoT-based per-
formance control systems and maintenance monitoring for early fault detection with
web-based automatic diagnostic techniques, and includes component technical specifica-
tions in Table 1 [ 16,17], and in Table 2 [ 24,40]. The monitoring and analysis of the condition
of induction machines is achieved by detecting and measuring currents, voltages, tempera-
tures, and vibrations, collecting data, and transmitting them to the cloud, and processing
and evaluating them for fault prediction and maintenance decisions [62,72].
• With the development of wireless sensor networks and specialized software, research
prioritized sending data to the cloud, storing and retrieving it, and processing and
visualizing data results for real-time control and decision making in Table 3 [ 67,68,73].
• IoT-based optimized control and performance monitoring of the induction motor, in-
cluding elimination of vibration and overheating conditions, improves fault prediction,
increases reliability, and reduces plant costs for O&M in Tables 2 and 3 [56,70].
• Of the most studied topics of induction generators are the technologies that allow
WECS to connect to IoE, such as the requirements for networking and remote control,
and avoiding or solving load rejection from instabilities due to the wind and load
demands Table 1 [18,19].
• Also, the integration and monitoring of the hybrid wind-photovoltaics with IoT and
ICT technologies, gained interest in the field of power supply restoration with early
diagnosis and fault recovery in Table 4 [80].
• Supervisory control, and fault detection and location using IoT, both in microgrids
and power distribution systems, with applications for smart sensor networks for data
acquisition, communication, and connection to the cloud, finding other useful data
from the cloud, and data security, improves neutral current compensation, elimination
of higher harmonics and, ultimately, power quality in Table 4 [78,81,84].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 22 of 28
Regarding the implementation of the control systems, we found a diversity of compo-
nents and devices, which are detailed in Tables 2–4, and the main modules and units are
summarized below:
• In all layouts described in Tables 2–4, a computer, or microcomputer, is installed which
can be:
(1) one microcomputer Raspberry Pi, in [24,39,40,60,62,66,69,81,82]
(2) one PC or a Single Board Computer, in [58]
(3) a laptop, in [61]
(4) a server, in [56,57,65,67,72,83,84]
(5) one IoT gateway, in [60,68,73,75,78]
(6) an IoT platform, in [70,71].
• Many layouts have Arduino microcontrollers, of different models and versions,
in [24,39,40,56,57,60,62,66,69,73,75,82].
• Communication protocols are needed in all cases, such as:
(1) the serial communications protocol Modbus, in [24,39,40,77,78,81,84], or,
(2) the Message Queuing Telemetry Transport MQTT protocol, in [55,70,81].
From a manufacturing point of view, it is practically difficult to compare different
layouts and devices due to the variety of designs and components used. From an oper-
ational point of view, all the aforementioned devices and systems have been tested and
found to function satisfactorily, which is why their results have been published. From the
perspective of technological progress, it is not yet possible to compare dissimilar layouts,
precisely because electronics and telecommunications technology are constantly evolving.
In conclusion, we find that there is no standardization of these systems, everything
is in a phase of evolution and constant change, depending on needs, ratings, technology,
available budget, and managerial decisions.
IoT is being introduced in academic laboratories for experiments with electric motion
controllers and for research on induction generators with WECS [ 24,39,55]. It is also
installed in electrical energy control centers for operator training, and in hybrid microgrid
management centers, for conducting studies to control and monitor the security of data
transmission via IoT in interconnected RES networks, in Table 6 [105,106].
Small machines and actuators for converting other forms of energy into electricity,
or for mechanical motion, such as triboelectric nanogenerators and piezoelectric wind
energy harvesters which are used for sensors in the IoT, in self-powered devices and in
power supplies for components of green IoT devices, are under study and development, in
Table 5 [20,85,87,89,91].
7. Conclusions
This article presented new aspects of integrating the control systems of electric ma-
chines with the IoT. Various aspects of the operation of electric machines were analyzed,
either as generators in wind power stations, or as motors in controlled electric drive systems,
or in other devices for converting energy into electricity.
The IoT-based control system of the performance of induction motor systems shows
high accuracy during rapidly changing duty cycles. The system proves controlled speed at
load variations, full torque at a large speed range, reliable cut-off and reconnection of the
mains, and increased efficiency.
In IoT-controlled induction generators in WECS, the voltage and frequency output and
the quality of the electricity generated are monitored over wind speed fluctuations. The
online and IoT-based preventive maintenance of electrical machines, whether industrial
equipment or electric power plants, avoids failures, and increases the reliability and lifetime
of machines.
While basically, the control of electrical machines applies verified and recognized
methods such as scalar and vector control of systems, with criteria to maximize efficiency
and improve the quality of the electricity produced, the development of IoT, with network-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 23 of 28
ing and communications, opens up new research topics. Thus, IoT proved to be a new
developed control environment for many industrial applications. The diversity of research
topics depends on the variety of applications, on the one hand for industrial loads and, on
the other, in electricity generation with an emphasis on renewable sources.
The described schemes demonstrate that IoT can be adopted and integrated into
controlled systems of electrical machines, for operation monitoring, energy management,
and preventive maintenance. In most cases, the main issues addressed concern:
• the connectivity of electrical power equipment to the IoT and ICT,
• the variety of sensors, to convert physical quantities into digital signals, quickly,
accurately, reliably, and compatible with the IoT and ICT,
• the acquisition, storage, transmission, processing, protection, access, and security
of data,
• nanogenerators and other energy harvesters for small power supplies of remote
IoT components.
Also, similar experiments to those described in this work can be developed and
applied in academic laboratories, for graduates and researchers interested in IoT projects.
Controlled electrical machine systems can experiment with different duty cycles, using
layouts and electronic devices that are interconnected with the IoT, and experimental
remote systems connected to platforms and the internet. This aspect of applied electrical
engineering education is still lagging behind and should be strengthened.
In this work we have selected representative reports that provide technical details
and guidelines for future constructions and experiments with such systems. However,
as a general conclusion, mention should be made of the low number of publications
in the technical literature that provide complete details on the design, implementation,
experimental testing, and construction of prototype control systems of electrical machines
based on IoT. Most of the retrieved and analyzed documents offer rich generic information,
but without giving specific instructions on the full design line of an IoT-based system, or
exact details of hardware, software, sensors, data acquisition, and communications.
The diversity of existent installed IoT controlled systems attracts the interest and efforts
of researchers in many academic laboratories, to continue with the design, development,
and prototyping of new layouts, with combinations of existing components and testing
new discovered devices and new ideas.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, S.A.P . and M.G.I.; methodology, A.P .S., S.A.P . and M.G.I.;
investigation, E.E.S. and M.E.S.; resources, A.P .S., S.A.P . and M.G.I.; writing—original draft prepara-
tion, S.A.P . and M.G.I.; writing—review and editing, A.P .S., S.A.P . and M.G.I.; supervision M.G.I.;
project administration, M.G.I.; funding acquisition, M.G.I. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
References
1. Al-Fuqaha, A.; Guizani, M.; Mohammadi, M.; Aledhari, M.; Ayyash, A. Internet of Things: A Survey on Enabling Technologies,
Protocols and Applications. IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 2015 ,17, 2347–2376. [CrossRef]
2. Mili´ c, S.D.; Babi´ c, B.M. Toward the Future—Upgrading Existing Remote Monitoring Concepts to IIoT Concepts. IEEE Internet
Things 2020 ,7, 11693–11700. [CrossRef]
3. Zhong, R.Y.; Xu, X.; Klotz, E.; Newman, S.T. Intelligent manufacturing in the context of industry 4.0: A review. Engineering 2017 ,
3, 616–630. [CrossRef]
4. Malik, P .K.; Sharma, R.; Singh, R.; Gehlot, A.; Satapathy, S.C.; Alnumay, W.S.; Pelusi, D.; Ghosh, U.; Nayak, J. Industrial Internet
of Things and its Applications in Industry 4.0: State of The Art. Comput. Commun. 2021 ,166, 125–139. [CrossRef]
5. Pali, B.S.; Vadhera, S. Renewable energy systems for generating electric power: A review. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE 1st
International Conference on Power Electronics, Intelligent Control and Energy Systems (ICPEICES), Delhi, India, 4–6 July 2016;
pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 24 of 28
6. Papazis, S.A. Integrated Economic Optimization of Hybrid Thermosolar Concentrating System Based on Exact Mathematical
Method. Energies 2022 ,15, 7019. [CrossRef]
7. Abir, S.M.A.A.; Anwar, A.; Choi, J.; Kayes, A.S.M. IoT-enabled smart energy grid: Applications and challenges. IEEE Access 2021 ,
9, 50961–50981. [CrossRef]
8. Biega ´ nska, M. IoT-Based Decentralized Energy Systems. Energies 2022 ,15, 7830. [CrossRef]
9. Wójcicki, K.; Bieganska, M.; Paliwoda, B.; G órna, J. Internet of Things in Industry: Research Profiling, Application, Challenges
and Opportunities—A Review. Energies 2022 ,15, 1806. [CrossRef]
10. Sakib, N.; Hossain, E.; Ahamed, S.I. A Qualitative Study on the United States Internet of Energy: A Step towards Computational
Sustainability. IEEE Access 2020 ,8, 69003–69037. [CrossRef]
11. Rinaldi, G.; Thies, P .R.; Johanning, L. Current Status and Future Trends in the Operation and Maintenance of Offshore Wind
Turbines: A Review. Energies 2021 ,14, 2484. [CrossRef]
12. Elsisi, M.; Tran, M.-Q.; Mahmoud, K.; Lehtonen, M.; Darwish, M.M.F. Deep Learning-Based Industry 4.0 and Internet of Things
towards Effective Energy Management for Smart Buildings. Sensors 2021 ,21, 1038. [CrossRef]
13. Yaïci, W.; Krishnamurthy, K.; Entchev, E.; Longo, M. Recent Advances in Internet of Things (IoT) Infrastructures for Building
Energy Systems: A Review. Sensors 2021 ,21, 2152. [CrossRef]
14. de Oliveira Cavalcanti, G.; Pimenta, H.C.D. Electric Energy Management in Buildings Based on the Internet of Things: A
Systematic Review. Energies 2023 ,16, 5753. [CrossRef]
15. Sengamalai, U.; Anbazhagan, G.; Thamizh Thentral, T.M.; Vishnuram, P .; Khurshaid, T.; Kamel, S. Three Phase Induction
Motor Drive: A Systematic Review on Dynamic Modeling, Parameter Estimation, and Control Schemes. Energies 2022 ,15, 8260.
[CrossRef]
16. Kulkarni, P .P .; Patil, M.; Shibi, S.; Patle, M.; Kale, R. Review on Online Monitoring of Electrical Machine using IoT. In Proceedings
of the 2019 International Conference on Nascent Technologies in Engineering (ICNTE), Navi Mumbai, India, 4–5 January 2019;
pp. 1–4. [CrossRef]
17. De Jes ús Rangel-Magdaleno, J. Induction Machines Fault Detection: An Overview. IEEE Instrum. Meas. Mag. 2021 ,24, 63–71.
[CrossRef]
18. Moness, M.; Moustafa, A.M. A Survey of Cyber-Physical Advances and Challenges of Wind Energy Conversion Systems:
Prospects for Internet of Energy. IEEE Internet Things J. 2016 ,3, 134–145. [CrossRef]
19. Behara, R.K.; Saha, A.K. Artificial Intelligence Control System Applied in Smart Grid Integrated Doubly Fed Induction Generator-
Based Wind Turbine: A Review. Energies 2022 ,15, 6488. [CrossRef]
20. Vinoth Kumar, K.; Omer, M.; Singh, S.S.; Nayrah, M.A. A Review on Triboelectric Nanogenerators (TENGs) using Internet of
Things. In Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference on Forensics, Analytics, Big Data, Security (FABS), Bengaluru, India,
21–22 December 2021; pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
21. Ioannides, M.G.; Papazis, S.A.; Ioannidou, F.G. Implementation of scalar control scheme for variable frequency induction motor
actuator system. Sens. Actuators A Phys. 2003 ,106, 306–309. [CrossRef]
22. Lysenko, O.A. Sensorless Scalar Asynchronous Electric Drive for Pressure Stabilization of the Pumping Unit. In Proceedings of
the 2021 Dynamics of Systems, Mechanisms and Machines (Dynamics), Omsk, Russia, 9–11 November 2021; pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
23. Ioannides, M.G.; Tegopoulos, J.A. Generalized optimization slip power recovery drives. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 1990 ,5, 91–97.
[CrossRef]
24. Stamelos, A.P .; Papoutsidakis, A.; Vikentios, V .; Papazis, S.A.; Ioannides, M.G. Experimental Educational System of AC Electric
Drives with Internet of Things. In Proceedings of the XXIII International Conference on Electrical Machines ICEM 2018,
Alexandroupoli, Greece, 3–6 September 2018; pp. 1497–1502. [CrossRef]
25. Kowsalya, M.; Pradeep, R.; Elakya, A.; Gunapriya, D. PLC Based Critical Composition Control for Industries. In Proceedings of
the 2022 8th International Conference on Advanced Computing and Communication Systems (ICACCS), Coimbatore, India,
25–26 March 2022; pp. 1636–1639. [CrossRef]
26. Ansari, A.A.; Dyanamina, G. Fault Ride-Through Operation Analysis of Doubly Fed Induction Generator-Based Wind Energy
Conversion Systems: A Comparative Review. Energies 2022 ,15, 8026. [CrossRef]
27. Ioannides, M.G. State space formulation and transient stability of the double output asynchronous generator. IEEE Trans. Energy
Convers. 1993 ,8, 732–738. [CrossRef]
28. Ioannides, M.G.; Tuduce, R.; Cristea, P .-D.; Papazis, S.A. Wind power generating systems based on double output induction
machine: Considerations about control techniques. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Systems, Signals and
Image Processing (IWSSIP 2013), Bucharest, Romania, 7–9 July 2013; pp. 103–107. [CrossRef]
29. Igbinovia, F.O.; Krupka, J. The Prospect of the Internet of Renewable Energy (IoRE) in Electricity Networks. In Proceedings of the
2019 IEEE International Symposium on Technology and Society (ISTAS), Medford, MA, USA, 15–16 November 2019; pp. 1–6.
[CrossRef]
30. Wang, Z.; Ma, Y.; Sun, Y.; Tang, H.; Cao, M.; Xia, R.; Han, F. Optimizing Energy Management and Case Study of Multi-Energy
Coupled Supply for Green Ships. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1286. [CrossRef]
31. Durlik, I.; Miller, T.; Cembrowska-Lech, D.; Krzemi´ nska, A.; Złoczowska, E.; Nowak, A. Navigating the Sea of Data: A
Comprehensive Review on Data Analysis in Maritime IoT Applications. Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 9742. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 25 of 28
32. Stamatakis, M.E.; Ioannides, M.G. State Transitions Logical Design for Hybrid Energy Generation with Renewable Energy Sources
in LNG Ship. Energies 2021 ,14, 7803. [CrossRef]
33. Papazis, S.A.; Ioannides, M.G.; Fotilas, P .N. An information system for the multiple criteria assessment of renewable energy
power plants. Wind Eng. 2000 ,24, 81–99. [CrossRef]
34. Papazis, S.A.; Bakos, G.C. Generalized model of economic dispatch optimization as an educational tool for management of energy
systems. Adv. Electr. Comput. Eng. 2021 ,21, 75–86. [CrossRef]
35. Beniwal, R.K.; Saini, M.K. Analysis of PQ Disturbances in Renewable Grid Integration System Using Non-Parametric Spectral
Estimation Approach. In Innovations in Computational Intelligence and Computer Vision. Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing ;
Sharma, M.K., Dhaka, V .S., Perumal, T., Dey, N., Tavares, J.M.R.S., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2021; Volume 1189. [CrossRef]
36. Elsisi, M.; Tran, M.-Q.; Mahmoud, K.; Lehtonen, M.; Darwish, M.M.F. ‘Robust design of ANFIS-based blade pitch controller for
wind energy conversion systems against wind speed fluctuations. IEEE Access 2021 ,9, 37894–37904. [CrossRef]
37. Hosain Motlagh, N.; Mohammadrezaei, M.; Hunt, J.; Zakeri, B. Internet of Things (IoT) and the Energy Sector. Energies 2020 ,
13, 494. [CrossRef]
38. Zanella, A.; Bui, N.; Castellani, A.; Vangelista, L.; Zorzi, M. Internet of things for smart cities. IEEE Internet Things 2014 ,1, 22–32.
[CrossRef]
39. Ioannides, M.G.; Stamelos, A.; Papazis, S.A.; Papoutsidakis, A.; Vikentios, V .; Apostolakis, N. IoT monitoring system for
applications with renewable energy generation and electric drives. Renew. Energ. Power Qual. J. 2021 ,19, 565–570. [CrossRef]
40. Ioannides, M.G.; Koukoutsis, E.B.; Stamelos, A.P .; Papazis, S.A.; Stamataki, E.E.; Papoutsidakis, A.; Vikentios, V .; Apostolakis, N.;
Stamatakis, M.E. Design and operation of Internet of Things-based monitoring control system for induction machines. Energies
2023 ,16, 3049. [CrossRef]
41. Ioannidou, M.G.; Tegopoulos, J.A. Performance of a double fed induction motor with controlled rotor voltage magnitude and
phase angle. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 1987 ,2, 301–307. [CrossRef]
42. Pattnaik, M.; Kastha, D. Control of Double Output Induction Machine Based stand alone Variable Speed Constant Frequency
generator with nonlinear and unbalanced loads. In Proceedings of the IEEE PES General Meeting, Minneapolis, MN, USA,
25–29 July 2010; pp. 1–8. [CrossRef]
43. Idjdarene, K.; Rekioua, D.; Rekioua, T.; Tounzi, A. Performance of an Isolated Induction Generator Under Unbalanced Loads.
IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2010 ,25, 303–311. [CrossRef]
44. ISO/IEC 9075-1:2016, Information Technology-Database Languages-SQL Part 1: Framework (SQL/Framework). Available online:
https://www.iso.org/standard/63555.html (accessed on 17 January 2023).
45. Pierleoni, P .; Concetti, R.; Belli, A.; Palma, L. Amazon, Google and Microsoft Solutions for IoT: Architectures and a Performance
Comparison. IEEE Access 2020 ,8, 5455–5470. [CrossRef]
46. Modbus Tools. Available online: https://www.modbustools.com/modbus.html (accessed on 24 January 2023).
47. Hersent, O.; Boswarthick, D.; Elloumi, O. Chapter 5 ModBus. In The Internet of Things: Key Applications and Protocols , 2nd ed.;
Wiley: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2012; ISBN 978-1-119-99435-0. [CrossRef]
48. Ioannides, M.G. Determination of frequencies in autonomous double output asynchronous generator. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers.
1992 ,7, 747–753. [CrossRef]
49. Tierielnyk, S.; Lukovtsev, V . Emergency Prevention Control as a Means of Power Quality Improvement in a Shipboard Hybrid
Electric Power System. Energies 2024 ,17, 398. [CrossRef]
50. Klakeel, T.; Anantharaman, M.; Islam, R.; Garaniya, V . Effectiveness of Current Technology in GHG Reduction—A literature
Survey. TransNav Int. J. Mar. Navig. Saf. Sea Transp. 2023 ,17, 171. [CrossRef]
51. Liang, G.; Su, Y.; Wu, X.; Ma, J.; Long, H.; Song, Z. Abnormal data cleaning for wind turbines by image segmentation based on
active shape model and class uncertainty. Renew. Energy 2023 ,216, 118965. [CrossRef]
52. Barra, A.; El Haouti, K.; Ouadi, H.; Bensassi, B. Non-Linear Control of a Wind Energy System. In Proceedings of the 2019
International Conference on Systems of Collaboration Big Data, Internet of Things & Security (SysCoBIoTS), Casablanca, Morocco,
12–13 December 2019; pp. 1–7. [CrossRef]
53. Zhu, Q.; Wang, R.; Chen, Q.; Liu, Y.; Qin, W. IOT Gateway: Bridging wireless sensor networks into Internet of Things. In
Proceedings of the 8th IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Embedded and Ubiquitous Computing, Hong Kong, China, 11–13
December 2010; The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2010; pp. 347–352.
54. Patel, P .; Cassou, D. Enabling high-level application development for the Internet of Things. J. Syst. Softw. 2015 ,103, 62–84.
[CrossRef]
55. Kurniawan, A.O.; Hakiki, A.R.; Banjarnahor, K.N.; Hady, M.A.; Santoso, A.; Fatoni, A. Internet Based Remote Laboratory
Architecture for 3-Phase Induction Motor Control System Experiment. In Proceedings of the 2021 International Seminar on
Intelligent Technology and Its Applications (ISITIA), Surabaya, Indonesia, 21–22 July 2021; pp. 381–385. [CrossRef]
56. Junfithrana, A.P .; Solikin, I.; Hadi, J.K.; Dedy Novianto, M. Improving Electric Motor Performance by Handling Interference
using IOT. In Proceedings of the 2019 5th International Conference on Computing Engineering and Design (ICCED), Singapore,
11–13 April 2019; pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
57. Prabudha, B.; Madhusudhanan, D. Vector Control of Induction Motor using Multi-level Inverter and IoT. In Proceedings of
the 2019 2nd International Conference on Power and Embedded Drive Control (ICPEDC), Chennai, India, 21–23 August 2019;
pp. 208–213. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 26 of 28
58. Thombre, A.C.; Shah, S.; Thombre, A.S.; Haldankar, G.T.; Kasambe, P .V . Design of IoT based intelligent AC drive system using
space vector algorithm. In Proceedings of the 2017 International Conference on Communication and Signal Processing (ICCSP),
Chennai, India, 6–8 April 2017; pp. 2097–2100. [CrossRef]
59. Molnar, R.N.; Deaconu, D. Software-Defined Motor Control System in the Internet of Things Era. In Proceedings of the 2019 8th
International Conference on Modern Power Systems (MPS), Cluj, Romania, 21–23 May 2019; pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
60. Divya, B.V .; Latha, N.; Ashwinikumari, P . IOT Enabled Power Monitoring and Control of Single-Phase Induction Motor.
In Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference on Emerging Smart Computing and Informatics (ESCI), Pune, India,
5–7 March 2021; pp. 670–673. [CrossRef]
61. Li, T.; Wang, G.; Zhang, Y. Design of Compaction Operation Monitoring System for Intelligent Vibratory Roller Based on Internet
of Things. Eng. Proc. 2021 ,10, 50. [CrossRef]
62. Barksdale, H.; Smith, Q.; Khan, M. Condition Monitoring of Electrical Machines with Internet of Things. In Proceedings of the
SoutheastCon 2018, St. Petersburg, FL, USA, 19–22 April 2018; pp. 1–4. [CrossRef]
63. Shrouf, F.; Miragliotta, G. Energy management based on Internet of Things: Practices and framework for adoption in production
management. J. Clean Prod. 2015 ,100, 235–246. [CrossRef]
64. Zhang, Y.; Zhang, G.; Wang, J.; Sun, S.; Si, S.; Yang, T. Real-time information capturing and integration framework of the internet
of manufacturing things. Int. J. Comput. Integr. Manuf. 2015 ,28, 811–822. [CrossRef]
65. Santos, J.F.D.; Tshoombe, B.K.; Santos, L.H.B.; Araujo, R.C.F.; Manito, A.R.A.; Fonseca, W.S.; Silva, M.O. Digital Twin-Based
Monitoring System of Induction Motors Using IoT Sensors and Thermo-Magnetic Finite Element Analysis. IEEE Access 2023 ,
11, 1682–1693. [CrossRef]
66. Gutiérrez, S.; Islas, L.; Ibanez, F.M.; Cardona, M.; Calzada, J.; Solanki, V .K. Wireless Ammeter Based on ZigBee for Continuous
Monitoring of Induction Motors. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE 39th Central America and Panama Convention (CONCAPAN
XXXIX), Guatemala City, Guatemala, 20–22 November 2019; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
67. Compare, M.; Baraldi, P .; Zio, E. Challenges to IoT-enabled predictive maintenance for industry 4.0. IEEE Internet Things 2020 ,
7, 4585–4597. [CrossRef]
68. Civerchia, F.; Bocchino, S.; Salvadori, C.; Rossi, E.; Maggiani, L.; Petracca, M. Industrial Internet of Things monitoring solution for
advanced predictive maintenance applications. J. Ind. Inf. Integr. 2017 ,7, 4–12. [CrossRef]
69. Dehbashi, N.; Seyyed Hosseini, M.; Yazdian-Varjani, A. IoT Based Condition Monitoring and Control of Induction Motor Using
Raspberry Pi. In Proceedings of the 2022 13th Power Electronics, Drive Systems, and Technologies Conference (PEDSTC), Tehran,
Iran, 1–3 February 2022; pp. 134–138. [CrossRef]
70. Tran, M.-Q.; Elsisi, M.; Mahmoud, K.; Liu, M.-K.; Lehtonen, M.; Darwish, M.M.F. Experimental Setup for Online Fault Diagnosis
of Induction Machines via Promising IoT and Machine Learning: Towards Industry 4.0 Empowerment. IEEE Access 2021 ,
9, 115429–115441. [CrossRef]
71. Abid, G.; Shaikh, S.A.; Shaikh, M.F.; Hafeez Rajput, S.; Majeed, U.A.; Shaikh, A.M. IoT based smart industrial panel for
controlling three-phase induction motor. In Proceedings of the 2020 3rd International Conference on Computing, Mathematics
and Engineering Technologies iCoMET, Sukkur, Pakistan, 29–30 January 2020; pp. 1–8. [CrossRef]
72. Goundar, S.S.; Pillai, M.R.; Mamun, K.A.; Islam, F.R.; Deo, R. Real time condition monitoring system for industrial motors. In
Proceedings of the 2015 2nd Asia-Pacific World Congress on Computer Science and Engineering (APWC on CSE), Nadi, Fiji, 2–4
December 2015; pp. 1–9. [CrossRef]
73. Hamici, Z.; Abu Elhaija, W. Novel Current Unbalance Estimation and Diagnosis Algorithms for Condition Monitoring with
Wireless Sensor Network and Internet of Things Gateway. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2019 ,15, 6080–6090. [CrossRef]
74. Gheitasi, A.; Wolfs, P .; Alahakoon, S. Distributed Motor Current Signature Analysis in an IoT Environment. In Proceedings of
the 2019 29th Australasian Universities Power Engineering Conference (AUPEC), Nadi, Fiji, 26–29 November 2019; pp. 1–6.
[CrossRef]
75. Prakash, C.; Thakur, S. Smart Shut-Down and Recovery Mechanism for Industrial Machines Using Internet of Things. In
Proceedings of the 2018 8th International Conference on Cloud Computing, Data Science & Engineering (Confluence), Noida,
India, 11–12 January 2018; pp. 824–828. [CrossRef]
76. Hussain, S.M.S.; Nadeem, F.; Aftab, M.A.; Ali, I.; Ustun, T.S. The Emerging Energy Internet: Architecture, Benefits, Challenges,
and Future Prospects. Electronics 2019 ,8, 1037. [CrossRef]
77. Gajrani, K.; Bhargava, A.; Sharma, K.G.; Bansal, R. Dynamic performance improvement of wind power integrated grid using
TCP/IP communication network. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE Conference on Clean Energy and Technology (CEAT),
Langkawi, Malaysia, 18–20 November 2013; pp. 405–410. [CrossRef]
78. Khan, K.R.; Rahman, A.; Nadeem, A.; Siddiqui, M.S.; Khan, R.A. Remote Monitoring and Control of Microgrid using Smart
Sensor Network and Internet of Thing. In Proceedings of the 2018 1st International Conference on Computer Applications &
Information Security (ICCAIS), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 4–6 April 2018; pp. 1–4. [CrossRef]
79. Zhang, J. Distributed network security framework of energy internet based on internet of things. Sustain. Energy Technol. Assess.
2021 ,44, 101051. [CrossRef]
80. Yu, F.R.; Peng, Z.; Weidong, X.; Choudhury, P . Communication systems for grid integration of renewable energy resources. IEEE
Netw. 2011 ,25, 22–29. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 27 of 28
81. Moghimi, M.; Liu, J.; Jamborsalamati, P .; Rafi, F.H.M.; Rahman, S.; Hossain, J.; Stegen, S.; Lu, J. Internet of Things Platform for
Energy Management in Multi-Microgrid System to Improve Neutral Current Compensation. Energies 2018 ,11, 3102. [CrossRef]
82. Hossain, M.L.; Abu-Siada, A.; Muyeen, S.M.; Hasan, M.M.; Rahman, M.M. Industrial IoT based condition monitoring for wind
energy conversion system. CSEE J. Power Energy Syst. 2021 ,7, 654–664. [CrossRef]
83. Ferreira, M.A.A.; de Souza, L.F.; dos Silva, F.H.; Ohata, E.F.; Almeida, J.S.; Filho, P .P .R. Intelligent Industrial IoT system for
detection of short-circuit failure in windings of wind turbines. In Proceedings of the 2020 International Joint Conference on
Neural Networks (IJCNN), Glasgow, UK, 19–24 July 2020; pp. 1–8. [CrossRef]
84. Ul Mehmood, M.; Ulasyar, A.; Khattak, A.; Imran, K.; Sheh Zad, H.; Nisar, S. Cloud Based IoT Solution for Fault Detection and
Localization in Power Distribution Systems. Energies 2020 ,13, 2686. [CrossRef]
85. Arshad, R.; Zahoor, S.; Shah, M.A.; Wahid, A.; Yu, H. Green IoT: An Investigation on Energy Saving Practices for 2020 and beyond.
IEEE Access 2017 ,5, 15667–15681. [CrossRef]
86. Flank, M.; de Oliveira Baumann, L.; Tüysüz, A.; Kolar, J.W. Energy Harvesting with Single-Sided Linear Induction Machines
Featuring Secondary Conductive Coating. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2019 ,66, 4880–4890. [CrossRef]
87. Sheeraz, M.A.; Malik, M.S.; Rehman, K.; Elahi, H.; Butt, Z.; Ahmad, I.; Eugeni, M.; Gaudenzi, P . Numerical Assessment and
Parametric Optimization of a Piezoelectric Wind Energy Harvester for IoT-Based Applications. Energies 2021 ,14, 2498. [CrossRef]
88. Pozo, B.; Araujo, J. Á.; Zessin, H.; Mateu, L.; Garate, J.I.; Spies, P . Mini Wind Harvester and a Low Power Three-Phase AC/DC
Converter to Power IoT Devices: Analysis, Simulation, Test and Design. Appl. Sci. 2020 ,10, 6347. [CrossRef]
89. Lopez-Martin, A.; Algueta, J.M.; Mat ías, I.R. Energy harvesting approaches in IoT scenarios with very low ambient energy. Renew.
Energy Power Qual. J. REPQJ 2019 ,17, 183–187. [CrossRef]
90. Roy, S.; Kabir, M.H.; Salauddin, M.; Halim, M.A. An Electromagnetic Wind Energy Harvester Based on Rotational Magnet
Pole-Pairs for Autonomous IoT Applications. Energies 2022 ,15, 5725. [CrossRef]
91. Zou, Y.; Sun, M.; Yan, F.; Du, T.; Xi, Z.; Li, F.; Zhu, C.; Wang, H.; Zhao, J.; Sun, P .; et al. A High-Performance Flag-Type Triboelectric
Nanogenerator for Scavenging Wind Energy toward Self-Powered IoTs. Materials 2022 ,15, 3696. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
92. Sangoleye, F.; Irtija, N.; Tsiropoulou, E.E. Smart Energy Harvesting for Internet of Things Networks. Sensors 2021 ,21, 2755.
[CrossRef]
93. Williams, K.; Qouneh, A. Internet of Things: Solar array tracker. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE 60th International Midwest
Symposium Circuits and Systems MWSCAS, Boston, MA, USA, 6–9 August 2017. [CrossRef]
94. Victor, J.L.F.; Juc á, S.C.S.; Pereira, R.I.S.; Carvalho, P .C.M.; Fern ández-Ram írez, L.M. IoT Monitoring systems applied to photo-
voltaic generation: The relevance for increasing decentralized plants. Renew. Energy Power Qual. 2019 ,17, 536–545. [CrossRef]
95. Gomes De Melo, G.C.; Torres, I.C.; Bezzera Queiroz De Ara újo,Í.; Brito, D.B.; de Andrade Barboza, E. A Low-Cost IoT System
for Real-Time Monitoring of Climatic Variables and Photovoltaic Generation for Smart Grid Application. Sensors 2021 ,21, 3293.
[CrossRef]
96. Nandhini, M.; Arunsankar, G.; Anbu Sujitha, S.D.; Venkatasubramanian, R. Monitoring of Photovoltaic Fed Induction Motor
Control using IoT. In Proceedings of the 2023 2nd International Conference on Edge Computing and Applications, ICECAA,
Namakkal, India, 19–21 July 2023; pp. 1323–1328. [CrossRef]
97. Ioannides, M.G.; Papazis, S.A. Teaching and research in emerging electrical energy engineering education. In Proceedings of
the 2021 International Conference on Applied and Theoretical Electricity (ICATE), Craiova, Romania, 27–29 May 2021; pp. 1–5.
[CrossRef]
98. Kumar, A.; Naqvi, B.; Wolff, A. Exploring the energy informatics and energy citizenship domains: A systematic literature review.
Energy Inform. 2023 ,6, 13. [CrossRef]
99. Klaassen, R.; De Vries, P .; Ioannides, M.G.; Papazis, S.A. Tipping your toe in the Emerging Technologies’ Pond from an educational
point of view. In Proceedings of the 5th SEFI Annual Conference 2017: Education Excellence for Sustainability, Islands Azores,
Portugal, 18–21 September 2017; pp. 1190–1198, ISBN 978-989-98875-7-2.
100. Ioannides, M.G.; Papazis, S.A. Development of new curricula in vocational education for the needs of enterprises and employabil-
ity of graduates. In Proceedings of the 2016 15th International Conference on Information Technology Based Higher Education
and Training (ITHET), Istanbul, Turkey, 8–10 September 2016; pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
101. Fyodorova, S.V .; Fyodorov, K.A.; Papulovskaya, N.V . Educational Environment for Training Future Engineers for Enterprises
of Mining and Metallurgical Complex. In Proceedings of the 2018 IV International Conference on Information Technologies in
Engineering Education (Inforino), Moscow, Russia, 23–26 October 2018; pp. 1–4. [CrossRef]
102. Kholifah, U.; Dini, R.H.; Wibawa, A.P .; Nugraha, E. Comparing the characteristics of undergraduate program of information
system in public and private universities. In Proceedings of the 2017 3rd International Conference on Science in Information
Technology (ICSITech), Bandung, Indonesia, 25–26 October 2017; pp. 483–487. [CrossRef]
103. Papazis, S.A.; Ioannides, M.G. Emerging Energy Engineering Education on the Way to Employment. Learning with Technologies
and Technologies in Learning ; Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems; Auer, M.E., Pester, A., May, D., Eds.; Springer: Cham,
Switzerland, 2022; Volume 456, pp. 655–677. [CrossRef]
104. García-Vandewalle Garc ía, J.M.; Garc ía-Carmona, M.; Trujillo Torres, J.M.; Moya-Fern ández, P . Teacher Training for Educational
Change: The View of International Experts. Contemp. Educ. Technol. 2022 ,14, ep330. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
105. Martínez-Mart ínez, J.; Aponte-Roa, D.; Vergara-Laurens, I.; Weaver, W.W. A Low-Cost Secure IoT Mechanism for Monitoring and
Controlling Poly-generation Microgrids. Appl. Sci. 2020 ,10, 8354. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 645 28 of 28
106. Faria, L.; Silva, A.; Vale, Z.; Marques, A. Training Control Centers’ Operators in Incident Diagnosis and Power Restoration Using
Intelligent Tutoring Systems. IEEE Trans. Learn. Technol. 2009 ,2, 135–147. [CrossRef]
107. Charles Raja, S.; Vishnu Dharssini, A.C.; Jeslin Drusila Nesmalar, J.; Karthick, T. Deployment of IoT-Based Smart Demand-Side
Management System with an Enhanced Degree of User Comfort at an Educational Institution. Energies 2023 ,16, 1403. [CrossRef]
108. Sangjan, W.; Carter, A.H.; Pumphrey, M.O.; Jitkov, V .; Sankaran, S. Development of a Raspberry Pi-Based Sensor System for
Automated in-Field Monitoring to Support Crop Breeding Programs. Inventions 2021 ,6, 42. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
