IOP Publishing Measurement Science and Technology 
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX  https://doi.org/XXXX/XXXX 
xxxx-xxxx/xx/xxxxxx  1  © xxxx IOP Publishing Ltd  
 Research on Main Bearing Life Prediction of 
Direct-Drive Wind Turbine Based on Digital Twin 
Technology  
Wentao Zhao1,2, Chao Zhang1,2,*, Jianguo Wang1,2, Oscar García Peyrano3, Fengshou Gu4*, Shuai Wang1,2 and 
Da Lv1,2 
1 School of Mechanical Engineering, Inner Mongolia University of Science and Technology, Baotou, China  
2 Inner Mongolia Key Laboratory of Intelligent Diagnosis and Control of Mechatronic System,Baotou, China 
3 Balseiro Institute, Cuyo University, San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina  
4 Centre for Efficiency and Performance Engineering, University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield HD1 3DH, UK  
 
E-mail: zl2202318@163.com 
 
Received xxxxxx 
Accepted for publication xxxxxx 
Published xxxxxx 
Abstract 
Large and expensive mechanical equipment such as wind turbines generally has limited fault datasets from real-world 
operations for digital model development. This often leads to poor accuracy in implementing a model based the life 
prediction. To address this data shortage issue in developing deep learning models, a remaining useful life prediction 
approach is proposed in this paper, which combines digital twin technology with transfer learning theory and embedded 
convolutional long short-term memory extended model. Firstly, the main bearing of a direct-drive wind turbine is mapped to 
the digital world by digital twin technology, allowing for the fault datasets of main bearings to be generated and thereby 
ensuring the model to be trained sufficiently with a balanced dataset. The convolutional long short-term memory network 
then performs convolutional operations on input-to-state and state-to-state transitions, thereby integrating the time 
dependence and time-frequency characteristics of the data. In the meantime, a transfer learning was used to transfer the 
trained model to the wind field for real-word fault diagnostics and the life prediction of main bearings. Finally, the approach 
is applied to predicting the life of the main bearings, which is also compared with other methods of similar types. The results 
verified that the proposed approach can effectively overcome the low data density of large equipment, greatly improving the 
accuracy of life prediction.. 
Keywords: Wind Turbine Main Bearing, Remaining Useful Life, Digital Twin, Transfer Learning, Deep Learning 
 
1. Introduction 
With the consumption of coal, the energy crisis is 
gradually approaching. In order to achieve the goal of carbon 
neutrality, all countries in the world are inclined to wind 
power. A recent report [1] confirmed that China can develop 
and utilize wind energy reserves of about 1 billion KW, and 
the cumulative installed capacity of onshore wind power in 
2025 will reach 510 GW. Year-on-year growth from 2019 
was 22.2%. Another report [2] shows that China has officially implemented the subsidy rollback policy in 2021, 
which is bound to bring greater challenges to the wind power 
industry. Reducing actual operating costs has become an 
urgent need for wind power enterprises. 
As the key component of the transmission chain of wind 
turbine, if accidental damage occurred due to the belated 
maintenance, the stability of the whole machine will be 
affected and a chain reaction will occur, and even cause the 
shut down of direct-drive wind turbine for a long time. 
Excessive maintenance will also lead to a significant increase 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 2   
 in operation and maintenance costs [3]. Therefore, high-
precision life prediction research of the main bearing can 
effectively reduce the operating cost of the direct-drive wind 
turbine. Through in-depth study of literature and research 
reports, life prediction methods can be divided into 
performance index extrapolation method and similarity 
measurement method by principle. The performance index 
extrapolation method can obtain the estimated value or 
prediction interval of Remaining Useful Life (RUL) by 
fitting the historical operation data of a single bearing and 
extrapolating to the failure threshold. Cheng et al. [4] 
proposed a transfer convolutional neural network to learn 
regional invariant features and avoid the influence of nuclear 
selection. Wang [5] et al. modeled the time dependence of 
different degradation states by constructing a recursive 
convolution layer based on the traditional convolutional 
neural network, and then proposed a recursive convolutional 
neural network life prediction framework. Zhao [6] et al. 
proposed a new bearing life prediction method based on 
gradient spectral entropy of high-order differential 
mathematical morphology, phase space reconstruction, and 
extreme learning machine. Performance indicators 
extrapolation method can effectively use deep learning 
theory to establish the mapping relationship between original 
data and its corresponding RUL, but in the process of bearing 
early degradation, due to the healing effect of the bearing, 
makes the performance degradation index show greater 
volatility, if the degradation trend was not obvious, A large 
number of training samples are required to achieve high-
quality feature extraction tasks. Otherwise, the model is 
prone to accumulate errors through recursive forward multi-
step prediction, resulting in serious deviation or failure of the 
prediction result. It can only guarantee the accuracy of 
prediction results in a very short period time.  
However, the similarity measurement method requires the 
bearing operating characteristics of the whole life as a 
reference sample, then compares with the operating 
characteristics of the current bearing, and calculates the 
similarity weighting coefficient of the two, in the end, the 
RUL prediction can be obtained by weighting the reference 
sample RUL. For example, Gu [7] et al. disclosed a new 
weight function and a new similarity measurement method, 
whose performance can be rapidly improved with the 
increase of available reference systems. Mao [8] et al. 
proposed a time series clustering algorithm by using different 
degradation sequences and global degradation information to 
measure similarity, which was successfully applied in the 
study of bearing life prediction. Cai [9] et al. developed the 
similarity matching process including the nuclear two-
sample test, and obtained the RUL probability distribution of 
the device by combining Weibull analysis. Wang [10] et al. 
used correlation vector machine regression sparse 
representation of bearing degradation data with different kernel parameters, and realized adaptive prediction of 
bearing life by combining Frechet distance. The similarity 
measurement method has a good ability of long-range 
prediction, but its characteristics based on the overall 
historical data of bearings limit the application scope of this 
method. The accuracy of model results is limited to single or 
limited working condition, and the prediction results will be 
significantly reduced if special working conditions occur. 
The vibration signal of the direct-drive wind turbine main 
bearing has the common characteristics like its big data and 
low density [11]. If it operated in a normal working state for 
a long time, it would result in the high repeatability of 
information contained in the monitoring data and low data 
value density. However, whether it is a performance metric 
extrapolation method or a similarity measure method, the 
accuracy of its life prediction results depends on sufficient 
amount of failure data available. Therefore, the application 
effect of the traditional life prediction method on the main 
bearing of the direct-drive wind turbine is not ideal [12,13]. 
And the motivation of this study is through the study of the 
predictive maintenance of wind turbine key components, thus 
improving the usability of the direct-drive wind turbine, 
reducing the direct-drive wind turbine operating costs and 
energy costs, and thus reducing accident maintenance and 
expensive cost of transportation. Therefore, how to improve 
the accuracy of the main bearing life prediction and the 
practical applicability of the project is the key and 
challenging issue. Some scholars in order to solve the defect 
of low information density of bearing historical data, studied 
the migration theory of bearing life prediction, such as Mao 
[14] and others focused on the problem that rolling bearing 
degradation has fewer data and led to the inaccuracy of the 
life prediction results, the paper proposed a two-stage 
includes offline and online depth migration study method; 
Berghout [15], Zeng[16] et al. used transfer learning and 
artificial intelligence methods to improve the efficiency and 
accuracy of bearing life prediction by implementing 
accelerated life test of bearings in the laboratory. Transfer 
learning theory broadens the two basic assumptions of 
traditional machine learning, and can transfer existing 
knowledge to solve the learning problem of only a small 
amount of labelled sample data or even no labelled sample 
data in the target field [17]. In theory, it can effectively solve 
the problem of the lack of labelled sample data in the main 
bearing of direct-drive wind turbine. Yet transfer learning 
theory was applied to the bearing life prediction process, 
usually will be easier to implement test bench running data 
as the source domain data sets to construct the life prediction 
model [18,19], test bench and direct-drive wind turbine of 
physical differences, condition of the main bearing and the 
limitation of the running environment simulation seriously 
affected the precision of life prediction precision. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 3   
 However, digital twin creates virtual model of physical 
entity in digital world, and uses digital twin data to simulate 
the behaviour of physical entity. The interaction between 
physical entity and virtual model is realized through virtual 
reality interactive feedback, data fusion analysis, iterative 
optimization and other means [20,21]. With the development 
of high performance computing, system simulation, 
industrial Internet of Things, big data, and machine learning 
technology, digital twin technology has become the research 
hotspot [22-25], which has been proposed in recent literature 
and applied in different fields, including manufacturing [26], 
aerospace [27], medicine [28] and even agriculture [29]. The 
digital twin technology can reproduce the main bearing of 
direct-drive wind turbine to the digital world with high 
precision. The multi-dimensional and multi-domain high-
fidelity digital twin model with full coverage of parts can 
realize the simulation of the bearing under different working 
conditions. The model also can obtain a large number of 
sample datasets with balanced feature distribution. It 
contributes a new solution to the small sample problem faced 
by life prediction research. So, the emergence of digital twin 
technology provides a new paradigm to the life prediction of 
complex equipment. 
Digital twin technology can effectively reduce the 
difference in data distribution between the source domain 
and the target domain in transfer learning, thereby reducing 
the error caused by the unbalanced distribution of the 
datasets during the migration of features and 
hyperparameters. The choice of the feature extraction 
network part in the life prediction framework that includes 
digital twin and transfer learning is also important. Xu et al. 
[30] trained the life prediction model of subway traction 
motor bearing based on information fusion and convolutional 
neural network. Bu [31] et al. used support vector regression 
machine to achieve life prediction of rolling bearings. Long 
Short-Term Memory (LSTM), which can capture the long-
term dependence of time, has shown its advantages in the 
field of life prediction [32,33]. However, it has been found in 
recent literature that when LSTM is used for life prediction, 
statistics extracted from analysis in the time domain or 
frequency domain cannot well represent the non-stationary 
features of information [34]. Therefore, this paper adopts a 
Convolutional Long Short-Term Memory (CLSTM) 
algorithm to construct a life prediction model of the direct-
drive wind turbine main bearing by changing the state 
transformation of traditional LSTM into convolution 
operation, considering both sequence characteristics and time 
domain characteristics. 
This paper proposes a life prediction method approach 
based on digital twin technology. Firstly, the sensor 
equipment, Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition 
(SCADA) and Condition Monitoring System (CMS) are used 
to construct the perception module, to collect operation data of bearings. Combined with the main bearing multi-physical 
field coupling and reduced order model, a digital twin system 
of the direct-drive wind turbine main bearings is constructed. 
By injecting different faults into the model and changing 
different environmental parameters in a certain range, the 
source domain sample datasets are simulated to represent 
different cases. Based on transfer learning theory and 
CLSTM, the RUL prediction model of main bearings is 
established for applying to real-word operation data of main 
bearing and thus to realize the RUL prediction of the direct-
drive wind turbine main bearings with high precision. 
On this basis, the main contributions of this study are as 
follows: 
 A data-driven digital twin system for the direct-drive 
wind turbine main bearing was constructed, including 
scene awareness module, digital twin model and 
database. 
 A RUL prediction model combining transfer learning 
theory and CLSTM is proposed 
 The balanced datasets obtained by the simulation of the 
digital twin system were used as the source domain of 
the transfer learning theory instead of the traditional test 
platform data set, and the actual operation datasets of 
the main bearing stored in the database were used as the 
target domain to complete the training of the RUL 
prediction model. Combining digital twin technology 
with transfer learning theory and deep learning 
algorithm, a RUL prediction approach which can be 
applied to large equipment is proposed. 
 The performance of the proposed method was evaluated 
by using the actual wind turbine main bearing in Inner 
Mongolia and two public datasets of bearing. 
The rest of paper is organized as follows: Section 2 
discusses the digital twin system of the direct-drive wind 
turbine main bearing, including the establishment of multi-
physical field coupling reduced order model, perception 
module, database and others. Section 3 introduces transfer 
learning and the basic theoretical knowledge of CLSTM. 
Section 4 describes the transfer CLSTM method proposed in 
this paper, which is embedded in the digital twin system, and 
constructs a new life prediction approach. Section 5 takes the 
main bearing of direct-drive wind turbine as an example, the 
feasibility of the proposed life prediction method is verified 
by combining two common datasets of bearings. In addition, 
the experimental results are given and compared with other 
life prediction methods. Section 6 gives the conclusion of 
this paper. 
2. Design of digital twin 
The overall frame of the digital twin system of the direct-
drive wind turbine main bearing is shown in Figure 1. It 
mainly includes scene awareness module for collecting data 
of bearing operation and environmental information, big data 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 4   
 platform for storage, transmission and pre-processing of data 
flow, digital twin model based on main bearing multi-
physical field coupling low-order high-fidelity model and service module with "Everything As a Service" paradigm 
[35].
 
Sensing Equipment 1 Sensing Equipment 2 Sensing Equipment 3 Sensing Equipment Nę ęData acquisition and monitoring system, condition monitoring system, other instructions, parameters, etcDatabase
————————
Data is stored
Data preprocessing
Data fusion
The historical dataDigital twin model
——————————
Multi-physical field 
reduced order model
Intelligent algorithm 
interface
The simulation calculationService
————————
Data mining analysis
Condition monitoring
Fault diagnosis
RUL predictWeb/ Screen
TCP/IP Real-time operation parameters and control instructionsData interactionCommunication modes such as Websocket and 
HTTP
Simulation 
instructions, 
parametersPre-processed 
instructions and 
parameters
storage
Scene 
perceptionDigital Twin 
platformhuman-computer 
interaction
 
Figure 1. Overall frame of digital twin system for the main bearing of direct-drive wind turbin 
 
2.1 Scene Awareness module 
For the direct-drive wind turbine main bearing, accurate 
and comprehensive data collection can truly reflect the 
performance degradation trend of the bearing. The simulation 
drive of digital twin model also needs more kinds of bearing 
operation data. Therefore, on the basis of secure 
communications, TCP/IP and other communication methods 
are adopted to connect the Internet of Things platform with 
the sensors installed on the wind turbine. Operation 
parameters and control instructions can be obtained from 
SCADA, CMS and other sensors. Scene awareness module 
can realize the real-time perception of the main bearing 
running status of the direct-drive wind turbine by the digital 
twin system, and complete the construction of the scene 
awareness model of the digital twin system. So that it has 
efficient, accurate and safe data interaction and 
synchronization perception ability with bearings. 
2.2 Big data platform 
The data collected by a large number of sensors in the 
scene awareness module has the characteristics of multi-
source decentralized acquisition and continuous multi-
frequency sampling, these characteristics may cause great 
difficulties in data storage and transmission. In addition to 
the operational data collected, there are also digital twin 
model, service subsystem, data transmission, data 
pretreatment, data storage, and other digital twin subsystems in the whole process of each factor interaction. Cloud 
computing, distributed storage and other technologies create 
conditions for the management and preprocessing of massive 
digital twin datasets. So that modeling and simulation are no 
longer limited by computing capacity, and are further 
improved the degree of refinement. Therefore, in order to 
deal with the storage and calculation of massive datasets, In 
this study, Hadoop, a distributed parallel storage computing 
system developed by Apache Based on Google file system, 
was adopted [36]. and Spark, a lightweight distributed 
computing platform proposed by AMP Laboratory of 
University of California, Berkeley [37], was also adopted to 
complete the construction of a distributed platform for big 
data combined with strict information security control 
measures. Figure 2 and Figure 3 show the Hadoop system 
framework and Spark system framework respectively. 
 
Management tools such as deployment and configuration
The data 
warehouseData flow 
processingData mining 
library
Distributed computing framework
Resource Management FrameworkReal-time 
distributed 
database
ToolsDistributed 
collaboratio
n service
Distributed file systemLog 
Collection 
Tool
Database 
ETL tools
 
Figure 2. Hadoop system framework 
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 5   
 Java/R/Python and other languages to write applications quickly
Spark SQL Spark StreamingMachine 
learningFigure 
calculation
Spark core
HDFS/Hive/S3/Hbase
YARN Standalone MesosCore API
Application 
components
data processing
Data stored
Resource 
management
 
Figure 3. Spark system framework 
2.3 Digital twin model 
The twin model is the core part of the digital twin system 
of the direct-drive wind turbine main bearing. As a physical 
entity mapping in the digital world, the twin model needs to 
have the functions of assembly constraint, simulation 
operation and environment interaction between components. 
As shown in Figure 4, according to the characteristic 
parameters such as solid geometry and material properties of 
the direct-drive wind turbine main bearing, CAD modelling and CAE finite element simulation software such as 
Solidworks and ANSYS are used to complete the 
construction of the high-fidelity model. Considering the main 
influencing factors of the direct-drive wind turbine main 
bearing in the actual operation environment, the structure 
field, temperature field, oil film flow field and other physical 
coupling fields of the main bearing were built on ANSYS/ 
Workbench platform, and the factors such as wear and oil 
cavitation were fully considered. Offline data such as 
environment and position can also be used to construct a 
hyperrealistic simulation environment of the main bearing, 
so as to realize the fusion of finite element model and 
simulation environment. The digital virtual space model and 
environment were updated in real time by online data such as 
dynamic parameters and environmental parameters, and the 
high-fidelity model was driven by online operation data to 
conduct high fidelity behaviour simulation in realistic 
simulation environment. The state of direct-drive wind 
turbine main bearing was mapped to virtual space.
 
material 
propertiesGeometric parametersHistorical Operating 
DataMaterial type, 
stiffness, elastic 
modulus, etcInner and outer race 
diameter, meridian, 
thickness, etcOperating time, 
amplitude, speed, 
acceleration , etc
Environmental 
parametersRunning dataGeometric 
parametersWorking environment 
and bearing temperature, 
humidity, etcRotational 
speed, 
amplitude, 
force, etcVariable inner and 
outer ring race, roller, 
cage and other 
structures
ęę
ęę
Static information Dynamic dataPhysical 
spaceVirtual
space Model buildingSimulation Environment 
ConstructionBehavior simulation
Online 
data-
drivenOff-line material properties, 
geometric parameters, etcOnline geometric 
parameters, etcEnvironmental 
parameters, etc.Historical and real-time 
operating data, etcInformation 
fusion
Information 
and features
Figure 4. Construction of digital twin model 
 
However, the long simulation time cost of the completed 
multi-physical three-dimensional model cannot meet the 
requirements of the digital twin system. Therefore, a reduced 
order model technology, which can reduce the order of three-
dimensional model to one-dimensional model, can 
effectively solve the problem of long calculation time. in this 
paper, the main bearing simulation model built according to 
Figure 4 is compiled in the environment of ANSYS Twin 
Builder, the twin model after compilation and encapsulation 
is shown in Figure 5. In order to realize the research purpose 
of RUL prediction of the direct-drive wind turbine main bearing in this paper, the debugging and modal analysis of 
virtual sensor were carried out during the construction of 
twin model. The vibration displacement signals of main 
bearing in X and Y directions were used as the main output 
datasets for the life prediction model training introduced 
below. The encapsulated twin model can be directly 
deployed on the IoT platform. Internet of Things platforms 
such as Microsoft Azure IoT can efficiently connect 
subsystems such as scene awareness module, databases, twin 
model and services to realize the digital twin system 
framework. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 6   
 
 
Figure 5. Twin model of the direct-drive wind turbine  
main bearing 
2.4 Service 
Under the background of the product integration and 
services in modern society, service subsystem is the most 
direct embodiment of digital twin technology used to 
improve the economic benefits of production in all walks of 
life. It is based on the paradigm of "Everything as a Service". 
Digital twin system provides users with simulation, 
validation, monitoring, optimization, prognosis and diagnosis, 
prognosis and health management services. The process of 
building the functional digital twin system requires some 
third-party services, such as data services, knowledge 
services, algorithms, and so on. The service subsystem can 
meet all needs of users for the product. This paper focuses on 
the realization of the life prediction function and service of 
the direct-drive wind turbine main bearing digital twin 
system. 
3. Theory 
3.1 CLSTM algorithm 
Recursive Neural Network (RNN) includes temporal 
recursive neural network and structural recursive neural 
network. At present, the perception data of complex 
equipment generally has the characteristics of time series, so 
temporal recursive neural network is widely used in many 
fields and has achieved remarkable results. However, the 
traditional gradient RNN may cause gradient explosive and 
gradient disappear (long-term dependence) problem. LSTM 
using implicit unit can effectively deal with the time series 
data processing problem by introducing linear links and door 
control unit to overcome the problem that RNN cannot learn 
antecedent sequence or important information defect of 
antecedent network layer. LSTM becomes the optimal selection of temporal sequence modeling. It is widely used in 
machine translation and data prediction. 
The network structure of LSTM is much more complex 
than that of traditional RNN. There are multiple structures in 
the structure block and they interact with each other in a 
special way. Among them, the forgetting gate can decide 
whether to preserve the hidden cell state of the previous layer 
with a certain probability, and determine whether to leave or 
not the information in the cell state. By reading the output of 
the previous moment and the input of the current moment, 
the activation function is used to control the forgetting 
degree of the cell state of the previous moment. The 
expression is: 
 
1( ( , ) )t f t t ff W h x b                     (1) 
 
Where is the activation function, 
1th
is the output of the 
previous cell, tx is the input of the current cell,
fWand 
fbare 
the weight matrix and bias of the forgetting gate respectively. 
When the output of the forgetting gate is 0, it means that the 
previous cell state is completely forgotten; when the output is 
1, it means that the previous cell state is completely accepted. 
The input gate uses the previous output and current input 
to determine the amount and content of information to be 
added to the cell state. Add the information to the historical 
cell state, and then update the cell state, expressed as: 
 
1
1
1( ( , ) )
tanh( ( , ) )
. .t i t t i
t C t t c
t t t t ti W h x b
c W h x b
c f c i c

 
 
 

               (2) 
 
where 
tiis the input gate expression,
iWand 
ibare the weight 
matrix and bias of the input gate respectively,tc, tc, and 
1tcrepresent the immediate state, long-term state, and 
previous state of the cell, respectively,
CWand 
cbare the 
weight matrix and bias of the memory cell layer respectively. 
It can be seen that the new cell state is jointly determined by 
the history cell state, the forgetting gate, and the input gate. 
The output gate determines the final output at the current 
moment, and the result is jointly determined by the new cell 
state, the output at the previous moment and the input at the 
current moment. The expression is: 
1( ( , ) )
.tanh( )t o t t o
t t to W h x b
h o c 
                    (3) 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 7   
  
where toand thare the output gate expression and hidden 
layer expression,
oWand 
obare the weight matrix and bias of 
the output gate respectively. 
LSTM has the most significant effect in the method of 
processing sequence data. Some recent studies have made 
some improvements to LSTM and made some changes in the 
structure. For example, the Gate Recurrent Unit (GRU) 
proposed by Chung is to simplify the model of LSTM by 
combining the forgetting gate and input gate into an update 
gate. At the same time, the cellular state and the hidden state 
were combined [38]. Although the GRU simplifies the 
LSTM model successfully, the effect of the simplified model 
is not satisfactory for the massive data processing. In order to 
further strengthen the advantages of LSTM in temporal 
sequence data processing and increase the ability of LSTM to 
describe local spatial features on the basis of ensuring the 
ability of the original model to establish temporal sequence 
relations, convolution operation can be introduced to learn 
and represent the time-frequency characteristics of vibration 
signals, which is different from simply connecting the 
convolution layer with LSTM. The improved LSTM uses 
convolution as the conversion operation between different 
states of the internal structure, namely CLSTM, and uses 
time-frequency features instead of statistical features as the 
input of the model. CLSTM can effectively overcome the 
defect that traditional LSTM method ignores time-frequency 
information of vibration signal, and extend convolutional 
neural network to model sequence. Compared with LSTM, 
CLSTM only changes the conversion operation between 
internal states, so CLSTM also has five modules: forgetting 
gate, input gate, memory cell layer, hidden layer and output 
gate. The network structure is shown in Figure 6. The 
corresponding expression is:  ' '
1 1
' '
1 1
' ' '
1 1
' '
1 1
'( )
( )
tanh( )
( )
tanh( )t xi t hi t ci t i
t xf t hf t cf t f
t t t t xc t hc t C
t xo t ho t co t o
t t ti W X W H W C b
f W X W H W C b
C f C i W X W H b
o W X W H W C b
H o C

 
 
 
      
     
     
     


 

    (4) 
 
where,  represents the convolution operation, 
xiW, 
xcW, 
xfW, 
xoW are the weight of the current cell input, 
hiW, 
hfW, 
hcW, 
hoW are the weight of the previous cell output, 
ciW, 
cfW, 
coW 
are the weight of the current cell state. 
 
Ct-1Forget
gate
σ+
Input
gate
tanh σ
Ht-1
Xtσ
Output
gate tanhXt
Xt
 
Figure 6. CLSTM network structure 
 
If CLSTM is used for bearing life prediction, the network 
structure is shown in Figure 7. The time-frequency 
characteristics of bearing vibration signals are directly taken 
as input, and then CLSTM is used to establish a time-
frequency characteristic sequence model. Finally, the 
rectifying linear unit layer and regression layer are connected 
as the fully connected layer to realize the bearing life 
prediction function with dropout. It can learn the spatial 
relationship and time dependence of time-frequency features 
in vibration signals effectively.
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
RUL
Full connection 
layer time-frequency 
characteristics CLSTM
 
Figure 7. CLSTM life prediction model 
 
3.2 Transfer learning 
Although CLSTM in theory further strengthen the ability 
of the feature extraction of vibration signal, it still exists 
limitations like other deep learning algorithm. For example, 
the training set and testing set from the same condition of 
bearing have the same data distribution, whereas the direct-
drive wind turbine main bearing changes under the operating 
conditions, it has great difference in data distribution. If the 
model is retrained or the model parameters are fine-tuned for 
the target task, it not only needs a large cost of calculation 
time, but also is difficult to meet the demand of a large 
amount of labeled data in the prediction task. For this, deep 
transfer learning can be used. If the datasets of the source 
domain are all labeled data, then the source domain is: 
 
 s1( , ) , ,sni i i i
s s s s s siD x y x X y Y
    (5) 
 
Where, i i
s sx y、 are the ith sample and its label in the 
source domain respectively, 
sX and 
sY are the sample set 
and label set in the source domain respectively, and 
sn is the 
total number of samples. The source domain data in the 
transfer learning method has a large number of labelled data, 
which can be used to train the life prediction model. 
However, because the data set in the source domain is 
usually not the actual operation data of the bearing wind field, 
the prediction performance of the model trained by the 
source domain data is poor and cannot be directly used for life prediction. While the target domain data set is usually 
unlabeled data, then the target domain is: 
 
 j j
1( ) ,mn
m m m mmD x x X
   (6) 
 
Similarly,i
mx,mXandmnare themth sample, the 
sample set and the total number of samples in the target 
domain respectively. The amount of data in the target domain 
is small, so the actual operation data of bearings can be used 
to fine-tune the prediction model. The main task of transfer 
learning is to improve the prediction ability of the target 
domain by using the parameters of the source domain model. 
In transfer learning, the datasets of source domain and target 
domain respectively follow different probability distributions. 
If the datasets of the two domains have large distribution 
differences, the life prediction model in Section 3.1 will no 
longer be applicable. Therefore, reducing the data 
distribution difference between source domain and target 
domain will effectively improve the accuracy of life 
prediction model. Compared with traditional TL, deep TL 
can better obtain domain invariant features. This paper used 
domain-adversarial neural network (DANN) to implement 
TL from the source domain to the target domain. DANN can 
combine domain adaptation with feature learning, and feature 
learning parameters such as weights can directly act on the 
target domain. Specifics can be found in the literature [39]. 
4. Proposed RUL prediction method 
The framework of RUL prediction method for the direct-
drive wind turbine main bearing proposed in this paper is 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 9   
 shown in Figure 8. Firstly, massive simulation datasets of 
direct-drive wind turbine main bearings under different 
working conditions were obtained by injecting different 
faults or changing environmental parameters into the 
established digital twin system. The datasets were used as 
source domain data set to construct and train the CLSTM 
model. Secondly, the parameters and models of CLSTM are 
transferred to the direct-drive wind turbine main bearing in the wind field by means of weight transfer and feature 
transfer, and the life prediction model is fine-tuned by using 
the wind field operation and maintenance data of the direct-
drive wind turbine main bearing. The Transfer Convolutional 
Long-Term Memory (TCLSTM) model is obtained. Finally, 
the running data of main bearing is used to drive the life 
prediction model, and then the accurate RUL prediction of 
direct-drive wind turbine main bearing is realized.
 
Weight 
transferCharacteristics 
transferModel migration 
and adaptation
Transfer Convolutional Long Short-Term MemoryConvolutional Long Short-Term Memory
Main bearing digital twin system
 Wind turbine main bearing
Fault 
injectionEnvironmental 
parameters
Simulation data
Actual data
 
Figure 8. Framework of RUL prediction method for direct-drive wind turbine main bearing 
 
5. Experimental verification 
In order to verify the feasibility and effectiveness of the 
proposed life prediction framework, this study mainly uses 
two parts of the experiment to evaluate the framework. It can 
be seen from the above theoretical research, the theoretical 
basis that the proposed framework can significantly improve 
the accuracy of life prediction results is mainly as follows: 
(1) In the life prediction research combined with transfer 
learning theory, for large mechanical equipment, taking the 
traditional test bed operation data set as the source domain 
will produce a large error, because the simulation conditions 
of the test platform differ greatly from the actual working 
conditions. 
(2) The proposed TCLSTM life prediction model can 
effectively capture the sequence and time domain 
characteristics of vibration signals. Model has higher 
accuracy than the traditional life prediction model. Therefore, the first group of experiment are designed to 
verify the above theoretical basis. Two sets of bearing 
common datasets with different characteristics were used for 
verification. The purpose is to find the influence of different 
bearing types and working conditions on the accuracy of 
transfer learning life prediction results and the superiority of 
TCLSTM model. After the research hypothesis have been 
fully verified, the second group of design experiment is used 
to verify the feasibility and effectiveness of the life 
prediction framework in engineering practice.  In the RUL 
prediction module, the input size of the CLSTM network is 
set to 64, and the number of hidden units in each layer and 
the size of the convolution kernel are set to be the same. The 
grid search method is used to find the optimal value of the 
size of each hidden layer is set to 256, the convolution filter 
is set to 5 × 4, and the number of network layers is set to 2. 
For the deep architecture, the nonlinear Adam optimizer is 
used for adaptive optimization. The network learning rate is 
set to 0.001, the dropout ratio is set to 0.5, and the number of 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 10   
 training iterations is set to 500. The source regression layers 
and domain classification layers in DANN are all three-layer 
fully connected structures, and the dropout ratio and learning 
rate are set the same as CLSTM. 
5.1 experiment one The common datasets of bearings used in the first design 
experiment are shown in  Figure 9 and Figure 10 respectively. 
Table 1 shows the test bearing parameter information used 
by the two sets of common data sources.
  
Table 1 Test bearing parameter information on the test platform 
parameter PRONOSTIA platform XJTU-SY platform 
Inner race diameter/mm 22.10 29.30 
Outer race diameter/mm 29.10 39.80 
Bearing mean diameter/mm 25.60 34.55 
Number of balls 13 8 
Ball diameter/mm 3.5 7.92 
Load ratings dynamic/N 4000 12820 
Load ratings static/N 2470 6650 
 
 
Figure 9. PRONOSTIA test platform [40] 
 
 
Figure 10. XJTU-SY bearing accelerated  
life test platform [41] 
 
As shown in Figure 8, the open dataset are from IEEE 
PHM Data Challenge in 2012. The sampling frequency of 
vibration signals is 25.6kHz and the sampling interval is 10s, 
each sample contains 2560 data points. The failure threshold is set as 20g. There are three different working conditions in 
this data set, and the life cycle degradation data of 17 groups 
of bearings are shown in Table 2.
 
Table 2 PHM Challenge bearing data set 
Working condition Rotation speed （RPM） Load（N） Bearing dataset 
1 1800 4000 P1_1, P1_2, P1_3, P1_4, P1_5, P1_6, P1_7 
2 1650 4200 P2_1, P2_2, P2_3, P2_4, P2_5, P2_6, P2_7 
3 1500 5000 P3_1, P3_2, P3_3 
 
Table 3 XJTU-SY bearing data set 
Working condition Rotation speed （RPM） Load（N） Bearing data set 
1 2100 12000 X1_1, X1_2, X1_3, X1_4, X1_5 
2 2250 11000 X2_1, X2_2, X2_3, X2_4, X2_5 
3 2400 10000 X3_1, X3_2, X3_3, X3_4, X3_5 
    
 
The open data set shown in Figure 9 is from the XJTU-SY 
bearing data set obtained by the cooperative experiment  
 conducted by The School of Mechanical Engineering, Xi 'an 
Jiaotong University and Zhejiang Changxing Shengyang  
Technology Co., LTD. Sampling frequency of vibration 
signals is 25.6khz, sampling interval is 1min, each sampling 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 11   
 duration is 1.28s, and each sample contains 32,768 data 
points. Failure threshold is determined by relative method. 
When the maximum value of vibration signal in horizontal or 
vertical direction exceeds 10 times of the maximum value in 
normal operation of the bearing, the bearing is considered to 
have failed, and then the test failure data set is obtained. 
There are three different working conditions in this data set, 
and the degradation data of 15 groups of bearings in the 
whole life cycle are shown in Table 3. 
 
The above two common datasets are taken from different 
working conditions and different types of bearings respectively, in order to study the feasibility of transfer 
learning theory under different conditions, this paper utilises 
the advantages of CLSTM and highlights the necessity of 
using digital twin simulation data instead of laboratory data 
as the source domain for life prediction. Therefore, based on 
the above two common bearing datasets, two life prediction 
tasks are designed to study the transfer results of transfer 
learning theory under different working conditions and the 
transfer results between different components. As shown in 
table 4.
 
Table 4 Life prediction experiment tasks 
Task Source domain Target domain 
Prediction of different conditions P1_1, P1_2, P1_3, P1_4, P1_5, P1_6, P1_7 P2_3 
P1_1, P1_2, P1_3, P1_4, P1_5, P1_6, P1_7 P3_3 
P3_1, P3_2 P1_3 
P3_1, P3_2 P2_3 
Prediction of different bearings P1_1, P1_2, P1_3, P1_4, P1_5, P1_6, P1_7 X1_1 
P1_1, P1_2, P1_3, P1_4, P1_5, P1_6, P1_7 X3_1 
 
In task 1, the datasets in source domain are from all the 
datasets in PHM Challenge working conditions 1 and 3, and 
the datasets in target domain are P2_3, P1_3 and P3_3 under 
different working conditions. TCLSTM and CLSTM are used to simulate and compare the datasets of the same 
bearing under different working conditions. The life 
prediction results are shown in Figure 11. 
 
 
 
     (a)      (b) 
 
 
     (c)       (d) 
Figure 11. Life prediction results of task 1: ((a)~(d) are the life prediction results of working condition 1 working 
condition 2, working condition 1 working condition 3, working condition 3 working condition 1,  
working condition 3 working condition 2, respectively) 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
In task 2, the source domain is the same as task 1, and the 
target domain datasets are X1_1 and X3_1 in the XJTU-SY 
datasets under different working conditions. TCLSTM and 
CLSTM are used to conduct simulation comparison on the 
datasets of different types of bearings under different 
working conditions respectively. In this paper, CLSTM is directly used to predict target domain data without 
combining transfer learning theory. For TCLSTM method, 
CLSTM is trained with the source domain data set firstly, 
and then TCLSTM is applied to the target domain prediction 
datasets. The life prediction results are shown in Figure 12.
 
 
(a)            (b) 
Figure 12. Life prediction results of task 2: (a)PRONOSTIA condition 1 was migrated to XJTU-SY condition 1; 
(b)PRONOSTIA condition 1 was migrated to XJTU-SY condition 3 
 
It can be seen from the comparison results in figure 11 
that :(1) the life prediction model combined with transfer 
learning theory is superior to the model without massive 
balance training datasets; (2) The transfer learning theory can 
be effectively applied to the life prediction task of the same 
bearing under different working conditions; (3) The size of 
training data set affect the accuracy of life prediction models. 
In task 1, the result accuracy of life prediction using 
condition 1 as the source domain data set was higher than 
that using condition 3 as the source domain data set, because 
in PHM2012 Challenge, the number of datasets in condition 
3 was significantly less than that contained in condition 1. 
Compared with the life prediction results in figure 11 and 
figure 12, it can be seen that the accuracy of life prediction 
results of TCLSTM and CLSTM methods is low. This 
finding proves that for different types of bearings, the life 
prediction model of learning theory will produce certain 
errors when applied to other types of equipment with the 
migration of the source domain of learning knowledge. 
However, the general life prediction model without transfer 
learning theory is not satisfactory when applied to bearings 
of different types and working conditions. Therefore, 
conclusions can be clearly drawn from the two experimental 
tasks: Migration under the condition of the learning theory 
can be applied to different transfer tasks, which has certain 
generalization. But its accuracy differ due to bearing type, 
operation condition and decline, there are differences in two 
public datasets used as test bearing, but still in acceptable 
range. If the goal is similar to a direct-drive wind turbine 
main bearing of large complex equipment, the huge gap 
between laboratory testing equipment and research objectives 
will bring errors that cannot be ignored, so it is necessary to introduce digital twin technology into the field of life 
prediction. 
In addition to using two common datasets to verify the 
feasibility of transfer learning theory and the necessity of 
digital twin technology, in order to further verify the 
superiority of TCLSTM life prediction model in the field of 
life prediction, transfer Bidirectional Gated Recurrent Unit 
(TBiGRU), Transfer Long Short-Term Memory (TLSTM), 
Transfer Convolution Neural Network (TCNN), Transfer 
Gated Recurrent Unit (TGRU), Transfer Component 
Analysis (TCA), five popular life prediction methods 
combined with Transfer learning theory were compared. To 
be able to quantify the life prediction performance of 
different methods, three commonly used metrics are used, 
Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Root Mean Square Error 
(RMSE) and scoring function respectively to measure the 
error between the predicted result of remaining life and the 
actual value. Experiment is to contrast the effect of the 
difference between the different life prediction methods, and 
selection of up to 2012 of 3 kinds of condition of PHM 
challenge data as the source domain data sets, and will bring 
the result of the prediction error, so this paper only uses the 
data set of condition 1 of bearing as the individual life 
prediction model for predicting the source domain datasets 
experiment, comparing the results as shown in table 5. The 
three measures adopted in this paper have been widely used 
in the evaluation of bearing life prediction results, and the 
expressions are as follows: 
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 13   
  1
2
1
1
11ˆ
1ˆ( )
1
1N
i i
i
N
i i
i
n
i
iMAE y y
N
RMSE y y
N
Score A
N


 
 




 (7) 
 
Where, ˆ
iy represents the RUL predicted by each model, 
iy represents the true value of bearing life, N represents the 
length of test data, and Score represents the evaluation score. 
The larger the value is, the better the model prediction effect 
is. In terms of engineering practice, the significance of 
prediction in advance is much greater than that of delayed 
prediction. Therefore, in the evaluation of model prediction 
effect, in addition to the distance between prediction result 
and real value, the difference of penalty coefficient between 
prediction in advance and delayed prediction should also be taken into account. Therefore, iA in the scoring function 
should be further defined as: 
 
 1ln( ).( ),2 5
1ln( ).( ),2 200
0ri
i
ri
iE
r
iE
re E
A
e E

 
  (8) 
 
Where, 
irE is the error percentage between the predicted 
life of the model and the real value, expressed as: 
 
 ^
100%
ii i
r
iy yE
y 
 (9) 
 
Because all samples need to be traversed when calculating 
the metric, and the last RUL of the true value is 0, the last 
data point needs to be omitted when calculating the metric.
Table 5 Comparison results of different transfer learning life prediction methods 
 indicators Proposed method TBiGRU TLSTM TCNN TGRU TCA 
P2_3 MAE 0.11±0.01 0.14±0.01 0.18±0.01 0.31±0.01 0.23±0.01 0.54±0.01 
RMSE 0.13±0.01 0.16±0.01 0.20±0.01 0.33±0.01 0.25±0.01 0.56±0.01 
Score 0.56±0.01 0.51±0.01 0.46±0.01 0.39±0.01 0.44±0.01 0.27±0.01 
P3_3 MAE 0.10±0.01 0.12±0.01 0.17±0.01 0.30±0.01 0.20±0.01 0.52±0.01 
RMSE 0.12±0.01 0.14±0.01 0.19±0.01 0.32±0.01 0.23±0.01 0.54±0.01 
Score 0.59±0.01 0.55±0.01 0.49±0.01 0.40±0.01 0.46±0.01 0.28±0.01 
X1_1 MAE 0.19±0.01 0.23±0.01 0.27±0.01 0.41±0.01 0.31±0.01 0.68±0.01 
RMSE 0.21±0.01 0.24±0.01 0.29±0.01 0.43±0.01 0.32±0.01 0.70±0.01 
Score 0.46±0.01 0.45±0.01 0.42±0.01 0.33±0.01 0.40±0.01 0.21±0.01 
X3_1 MAE 0.18±0.01 0.24±0.01 0.25±0.01 0.41±0.01 0.30±0.01 0.70±0.01 
RMSE 0.20±0.01 0.26±0.01 0.27±0.01 0.43±0.01 0.32±0.01 0.72±0.01 
Score 0.46±0.01 0.44±0.01 0.44±0.01 0.33±0.01 0.40±0.01 0.20±0.01 
 
It can be seen from Table 5 that the life prediction model 
proposed in this paper can predict the RUL of bearings more 
accurately. Compared with the TCNN model which cannot 
capture the early vibration information and the TLSTM 
model which cannot capture the time-frequency 
characteristics. The TCLSTM model can learn the long-term 
spatial characteristics and capture the long-term dependence 
of time-frequency characteristics of vibration signals more 
effectively. Although the TBiGRU model consider the 
feature information of past and future moments 
comprehensively, it still takes the statistical feature of 
vibration signal as the input of the model, and the time-
frequency feature contains more information than the 
statistical feature. Therefore, the accuracy of TBiGRU 
prediction results is second only to the life prediction method proposed in this paper. TCA is a traditional transfer learning 
method based on regularized subspace learning. It is very 
difficult to find domain invariant features in subspace, so 
TCA has the worst prediction effect. 
5.2 experiment two 
Experiment one verified the theoretical basis of the 
proposed life prediction framework. In order to further verify 
the validity and practical application value of this framework, 
life prediction simulation research was carried out on the 
main bearing of an onshore 1.5MW wind turbine in Inner 
Mongolia. The data come from SCADA, CMS and the 
intelligent monitoring system of Zhongzi Qing 'a wind 
turbine. According to the specification of the certification 
company Lloyd's Register of Germany, the minimum design 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 14   
 life of the wind turbine spindle bearing is 130,000 hours, and 
the actual operation life of the wind turbine main bearing is 
about 193 months, which meets the design life requirements. 
By injecting faults into the digital twin model of the main 
bearings and changing the environment according to 
historical wind field climate data, direct-drive wind turbine 
operation instructions and operating parameters of the main 
bearing, the source domain dataset of the transfer learning 
theory was obtained, and the life prediction of the main bearings was carried out using the algorithm framework 
shown in Figure 7. To illustrate the advantages of this 
framework in real-world engineering applications, CLSTM 
and TLSTM without transfer learning strategy and TCLSTM 
using the whole life cycle data of bearing vibration tested in 
the laboratory as the source domain are compared with the 
proposed life prediction method. The prediction results from 
different methods are presented in Figure 13.
 
 
Figure 13. Life prediction results of main bearing of wind turbine 
 
Figure 13 shows the results of different life prediction 
methods in the application of direct-drive wind turbine main 
bearing. It can be seen that, compared with 16 years of main 
bearing actual service life, the red line represents the 
prediction of bearing failure time is several months earlier 
than the actual time; The TLSTM life prediction time 
represented by the yellow line is about one year earlier than 
the actual failure time. Although the failure time can also be 
predicted in advance, the prediction accuracy is lower, which 
verifies the superiority of CLSTM. 
The full life cycle data collected from the bearing test 
platform in the laboratory are taken as the source domain 
data set, and the results of life prediction by using TCLSTM 
are shown in Figure 12 as the purple line, the predicted time 
later than the actual failure time 3 years or so, in addition to 
low precision, latency prediction of failure time also 
determines that the method has no practical application value. 
It further illustrates the necessity of digital twin technology 
in the field of life prediction. The source domain data set 
comes from the direct-drive wind turbine drive chain 
simulation test platform independently developed by the 
laboratory, as shown in Figure 14. Through the study, this is 
because of the great difference between the test bearing and 
the direct-drive wind turbine main bearing, the limited experimental conditions of the test platform, the single 
operating condition, and the great difference between the 
characteristic distribution of training data set and test data set. 
 
 
Figure 14. Direct-drive wind turbine drive chain  
simulation test platform 
 
In Figure 13, the prediction result of CLSTM model 
without transfer learning strategy is the green line, and the 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 15   
 prediction time is about 18 months earlier than the actual 
failure time, with a large error, which further verifies that the 
model with transfer strategy is better than the model without 
transfer strategy. In summary, it can be concluded that the 
RUL prediction framework based on digital twin proposed in 
this study is feasible and effective, and can be well applied to 
the functional components of large and complex equipment 
such as main bearing of direct-drive wind turbine. 
6. Conclusions  
In order to improve the accuracy prediction of RUL for 
direct-drive wind turbine main bearing by overcoming the 
issues with low density of real-world fault data, this paper 
proposed a life prediction approach based on digital twin 
technology, transfer learning theory and deep learning 
algorithm. In view of the current situation that the transfer 
learning theory generally uses laboratory data as the source 
domain data set, the digital twin system of the direct-drive 
wind turbine main bearing can accurately simulate the actual 
working conditions of bearing, and a large number of 
datasets can be obtained through simulations to replace and 
composate the experimental datasets. In the life prediction 
model, a new LSTM network extension integrated with 
convolution operation is selected. CLSTM not only retains 
the time-dependence of LSTM, but also achieves the 
extraction of time-frequency features by using convolution 
features. However, TCLSTM combined with transfer 
learning theory and CLSTM further overcomes the defects of 
traditional deep learning algorithms' high standard 
requirements on training data set and the improvement of 
training time cost of CLSTM. In this paper, two groups of 
design experiments were used to verify the proposed life 
prediction approach. Experiments show that using digital 
twin technology can effectively reduce the life prediction 
error caused by different categories, environment, working 
conditions of wind turbine main bearing working in reality 
and laboratory conditions. TCLSTM is flexible, efficient and 
accurate, and has a certain universality, the proposed 
approach can effectively used in direct-drive wind turbine 
main bearing life prediction work.  
Future work will focus on verifying the application of the 
proposed life prediction approach to other key components of 
direct-drive wind turbines and even complete machines, as 
well as generalization in other fields. 
Acknowledgements 
This research was funded by the National Natural Science 
Foundation of China, Grant No. 51965052,51865045 and 
TEPEN-ICF2021-03. 
References [1]   Zhu, R.; Wang, Y.; Xiang, Y.; Sun, Z.Y.; Chang, R.; Hu, G.S.; 
Gao, Z.Q. Study on climatic characteristics and development 
potential of Wind energy resources in China. JOURNAL OF 
SOLAR ENERGY,2021,42,409-418. 
[2]   Xie, H.W.; Huang, T.J. Review and prospect of Wind power 
base policy in China. HYDROELECTRIC POWER, 2021, 
47,122-126. 
[3]   Bangalore, P.; Patriksson, M. Analysis of SCADA data for 
early fault detection, with application to 
the maintenance management of wind turbines. RENEWABLE 
ENERGY,2018, 15,521-532. 
[4]   Cheng, H.; Kong, X.G.; Chen, G.G.; Wang, Q.B.; Wang, R.B.     
Transferable convolutional neural network 
based remaining useful life prediction of bearing under 
multiple failure behaviors. MEASUREMENT, 
2021,168,108286-10898. 
[5]   Wang, B.; Lei, Y.G.; Yan, T.; Li, NP.; Guo, L. Recurrent 
convolutional neural network: A new framework 
for remaining useful life prediction of machinery. 
NEUROCOMPUTING, 2020,379,117-129 
[6]   Zhao, H.M.; Liu, H.D.; Xu, J.J.; Deng, 
W. Performance Prediction Using High-Order Differential 
Mathematical Morphology Gradient Spectrum Entropy and 
Extreme Learning Machine. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON 
INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, 
2020,69,4165-4172. 
[7]   Gu, M.Y.; Chen, Y.L . Two improvements of similarity-
based residual life prediction methods. JOURNAL OF 
INTELLIGENT MANUFACTURING, 2019,30,303-315. 
[8]   Mao, W.T.; He, J.L.; Sun, B.; Wang, L.Y . Prediction of 
Bearings Remaining Useful Life Across Working Conditions 
Based on Transfer Learning and Time Series Clustering.IEEE 
ACCESS, 2021,9,135285-135303. 
[9]   Cai, H.S.; Jia, X.D.; Feng, J.S.; Li, W.Z.; Pahren, L.; Lee, J. 
A similarity based methodology for machine prognostics by 
using kernel two sample test. ISA TRANSACTIONS, 
2020,103,112-121. 
[10] Wang, B.; Lei, Y.G.; Li, N.P.; Li, N.B.A Hybrid Prognostics 
Approach for stimating Remaining Useful Life of Rolling 
Element Bearings. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON 
RELIABILITY, 2020,61,401-412. 
[11] Zhang, T.C.; Chen, J.L.; Xie, J.S.; Pan, T.Y. SASLN: Signals 
Augmented Self-Taught Learning Networks for Mechanical 
Fault Diagnosis Under Small Sample Condition. IEEE 
TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND 
MEASUREMENT, 2021,70. 
[12] Huang, N.T.; Yang, X.H.; Cai, G.W.; Song, X.; Chen, Q.Z.; 
Zhao, W.G. A Deep Adversarial Diagnosis Method 
for Wind Turbine Main Bearing Fault With Imbalanced Small 
Sample Scenarios. PROCEEDINGS OF THE CHINESE 
SOCIETY OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, 2020,40,563-
573. 
[13] Lv, M.Z.; Liu, S.X.; Su, X.M.; Chen, C.Z. Deep Transfer 
Network With Multi-Kernel Dynamic Distribution Adaptation 
for Cross-Machine Fault Diagnosis. IEEE ACCESS, 2021, 
9,16392-16409. 
[14] Mao, W.T.; He, J.L.; Zuo, M.J. 
Predicting Remaining Useful Life of Rolling Bearings Based 
on Deep Feature Representation and Transfer Learning.IEEE 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Journal XX (XXXX) XXXXXX Author et al  
 16   
 TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND 
MEASUREMENT, 2020,69,1594-1608. 
[15] Berghout, T.; Benbouzid, M.; Mouss, L.H. Leveraging Label 
Information in a Knowledge-Driven Approach for Rolling-
Element Bearings Remaining Useful Life Prediction. 
ENERGIES, 2021,14,2163-2175. 
[16] Zeng, F.C.; Li, Y.M.; Jiang, Y.H.; Song, G.Q. An 
online transfer learning-based 
remaining useful life prediction method of ball bearings. 
MEASUREMENT, 2021, 176. 
[17] Zhijian Wang, Jie Cui, Wenan Cai. Partial Transfer Learning 
of Multi-discriminator Deep Weighted Adversarial Network in 
Cross-machine Fault Diagnosis. IEEE Transactions on 
Instrumentation and Measurement. 2022, DOI: 
10.1109/TIM.2022.3166786. 
[18] Ding, Y.F.; Jia, M.P.; Miao, Q.H.; Huang, P. 
Remaining useful life estimation using deep 
metric transfer learning for kernel regression. RELIABILITY 
ENGINEERING & SYSTEM SAFETY,2021,212. 
[19] Shen, F.; Xu, J.W.; Sun, C.; Chen, X.F.; Yan, 
R.Q. Transfer between multiple working conditions: A new 
TCCHC-based exponential semi-deterministic extended 
Kalman filter for bearing remaining useful life prediction. 
MEASUREMENT,2019,142,148-162. 
[20] Zhuang, C.B.; Liu, J.H.; Xiong, H. Digital twin-based smart 
production management and control framework for the 
complex product assembly shop-floor. INTERNATIONAL 
JOURNAL OF ADVANCED MANUFACTURING 
TECHNOLOGY, 2018,98,1149-1163. 
[21] Qi, Q.L.; Tao, F. Digital Twin and Big Data Towards Smart 
Manufacturing and Industry 4.0: 360 Degree Comparison. 
IEEE ACCESS,2018,6,3585-3593. 
[22] Fuller, A.; Fan, Z.; Day, C.; Barlow, C. Digital Twin: Enabling 
Technologies, Challenges and Open Research. IEEE 
ACCESS,2020,8,108952-108971. 
[23] He, B.; Bai, K.J. Digital twin-based sustainable intelligent 
manufacturing: a review. ADVANCES IN 
MANUFACTURING,2020,9,1-21. 
[24] Rasheed, A.; San, O.; Kvamsdal, T. Digital Twin: Values, 
Challenges and Enablers From a Modeling Perspective. IEEE 
ACCESS,2020,8,21980-22012. 
[25] Tao, F.; Zhang, M.; Liu, Y.S.; Nee, A.Y.C. Digital twin driven 
prognostics and health management for complex equipment. 
CIRP ANNALS-MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY, 2018, 
67,169-172. 
[26] Lu, Y.Q.; Liu, C.; Wang, K.I.K.; Huang, H.Y.; Xu, X. 
Digital Twin-driven smart manufacturing: Connotation, 
reference model, applications and research issues. ROBOTICS 
AND COMPUTER-INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING, 
2020, 61. 
[27] Liu, S.M.; Bao, J.S.; Lu, Y.Q.; Li, J.; Lu, S.Y.; Sun, X.M. 
Digital twin modeling method based on biomimicry for 
machining aerospace components. JOURNAL OF 
MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS, 2021, 58,180-195. 
[28] Braun, M. Represent me: please! Towards an ethics 
of digital twins in medicine. JOURNAL OF MEDICAL 
ETHICS, 2021, 47,394-400. [29] Verdouw, C.; Tekinerdogan, B.; Beulens, A.; Wolfert, S . 
Digital twins in smart farming. AGRICULTURAL SYSTEMS, 
2021, 189. 
[30] Xu, Y.W.; Cai, W.W.; Xie, T.C.; Zhao, P.F. Residual 
Life Prediction of Metro Traction Motor Bearing Based on 
Convolutional Neural Network. SHOCK AND VIBRATION, 
2021,2021. 
[31] Bu, T.; Zhang, G.; Jiao, W.T.; Ge, Y.W. Prediction of 
the bearing residual life based on the multiwavelet support 
vector regression. BASIC & CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 
& TOXICOLOGY, 2020, 126,119-119. 
[32] Wang, F.T.; Liu, X.F.; Deng, G.; Yu, X.G.; Li, H.K.; Han, Q.K. 
Remaining Life Prediction Method for Rolling Bearing Based 
on the Long Short-Term Memory Network. NEURAL 
PROCESSING LETTERS, 2019,50,2437-2454. 
[33] Guo, R.X.; Wang, Y.; Zhang, H.C.; Zhanga, G.L. Remaining 
Useful Life Prediction for Rolling Bearings Using EMD-RISI-
LSTM. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION 
AND MEASUREMENT, 2021,70. 
[34] Wang, Y.F.; Ma, K.; Garcia-Hernandez, L.; Chen, J.; Hou, 
Z.H.; Ji, K.; Chen, Z.X.;. A CLSTM-TMN for marketing 
intention detection.ENGINEERING APPLICATIONS OF 
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, 2020, 91,103595-103595. 
[35] Qi, Q.L.; Tao, F.; Hu, T.L.; Anwer, N.; Liu, A.; Wei, Y.L.; 
Wang, L.H.; Nee, A.Y.C. Enabling technologies and tools 
for digital twin.JOURNAL OF MANUFACTURING 
SYSTEMS, 2021,58,3-21. 
[36] Zagan, E.; Danubianu, M. HADOOP: A Comparative Study 
between Single-Node and Multi-Node Cluster. 
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ADVANCED 
COMPUTER SCIENCE AND APPLICATIONS, 2021,12,53-
58. 
[37] Wang, M.H.; Zhai, J.H.; Qi, J.X. Large-Scale Condensed 
Fuzzy K-Nearest Neighbor Algorithm Based on MapReduce 
and Spark.COMPUTER ENGINEERING, 2020, 46,139-147. 
[38] E, J.W.; Ye, J.M.; He, L.L.; Jin, H.H. Energy price prediction 
based on independent component analysis and gated recurrent 
unit neural network. ENERGY,2019,189,116278-116278. 
[39] Ganin, Y.; Ustinova, E.; Ajakan, H, et al. Domain-Adversarial 
Training of Neural Networks. Journal of Machine Learning 
Research, 2016, 17,2096-2030. 
[40] Yan, M.M.; Wang, X.G.; Wang, B.X.; Chang, 
M.X.;  Muhammad, I. Bearing remaining useful life prediction 
using support vector machine and hybrid degradation tracking 
model. ISA TRANSACTIONS,2020,98,471-482. 
[41] Wang, B.; Lei, Y.G.; Li, N.P, et al. A hybrid prognostics 
approach for estimating remaining useful life of rolling 
element bearings. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON 
RELIABILITY, 2020,69,401-412. 
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
