Structural health monitoring in a jacket-type wind turbine foundation: a
minimum distortion embedding approach
Jersson X. Leon-Medinaa,∗, N´uria Par ´esb, Francesc Pozoa,c
aControl, Data and Artificial Intelligence (CoDAlab)
Department of Mathematics
Escola d’Enginyeria de Barcelona Est (EEBE), Campus Diagonal-Bes `os (CDB)
Universitat Polit `ecnica de Catalunya (UPC)
Eduard Maristany 16, 08019 Barcelona, Spain
bLaboratori de C `alcul Num `eric (LaC `aN)
Department of Mathematics
Escola d’Enginyeria de Barcelona Est (EEBE), Campus Diagonal-Bes `os (CDB)
Universitat Polit `ecnica de Catalunya (UPC)
Eduard Maristany 16, 08019 Barcelona, Spain
cInstitute of Mathematics (IMTech)
Universitat Polit `ecnica de Catalunya (UPC)
Pau Gargallo 14, 08028 Barcelona, Spain
Key Words :Minimum Distortion Embedding ,Wind Turbine Foundation ,
Damage Classi fication ,Machine Learning ,Structural Health Monitoring
ABSTRACT
The extreme environmental conditions to which offshore wind turbine foundations are subjected make
reliable monitoring methods necessary to predict possible structural damage. A data-driven approach
was used to perform the structural health monitoring of a laboratory-scaled jacket-type wind turbine
foundation. A white noise signal simulating the waves and wind in the sea was applied and amplified to
the structure. The vibration-only response was measured by eight tri-axial accelerometers distributed in
the structure. Five different structural classes, composed of the healthy and 4 unhealthy, were correctly
classified using the following approach. 2460 measurements were acquired for the healthy structure
and 820 by each one of the four unhealthy structures for 5740 measurements in total. The data was
arranged using an unfolded procedure resulting in a two-dimensional matrix. This resulting matrix has
a size of 5740 x 58008. This resulting data has a high dimensionality. Therefore, using the minimum
distortion embedding (MDE) approach, a dimensionality reduction procedure transforms the original
data into a low dimensional space with fewer features. The low dimensional representation given by
different distortion functions was compared changing the repulsive and attractive penalties. The reduced
feature matrix serves as input to a machine learning classifier. Several tree-based classifiers like decision
trees, random forest and Adaboost were compared. A 5-fold cross validation procedure was executed to
reduce the overfitting finally a set of classification performance measures were calculated. The developed
structural damage classification methodology yields high classification accuracies.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
