water
Article
Visible Light Communication System for O shore
Wind T urbine Foundation Scour Early
Warning Monitoring
Yung-Bin Lin1,*
, Tzu-Kang Lin2
, Cheng-Chun Chang3, Chang-Wei Huang4,
Ben-Ting Chen1, Jihn-Sung Lai5and Kuo-Chun Chang1
1National Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering, 200, Sec. 3, Xinhai Rd., Taipei 106, Taiwan
2Department of Civil Engineering, National Chiao Tung University, 1001 University Rd., Hsinchu 300, Taiwan
3Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology, 1, Sec. 3, Zhongxiao E. Rd.,
Taipei 106, Taiwan
4Department of Civil Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, 200, Chung Pei Rd.,
Taoyuan 320, Taiwan
5Hydrotech Research Institute, National Taiwan University, 1, Sec. 4, Roosevelt Rd., Taipei 106, Taiwan
*Correspondence: yblin@narlabs.org.tw
Received: 4 June 2019; Accepted: 11 July 2019; Published: 17 July 2019
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Abstract: Oshore wind farms have a superior wind source to terrestrial wind farms, but they also
face more severe environmental conditions such as severe storms, typhoons, and sea waves. Scour
leads to the excavation of sediments around the foundations of structures, reducing the safe capacity
of the structures. The phenomenon of pier scour is extremely complex because of the combined e ects
of the vortex system involving time-dependent ﬂow patterns and sediment transport mechanisms.
A real-time scour monitoring system can improve the safety of structures and a ord cost-e ective
operations by preventing premature or unnecessary maintenance. This paper proposes an on-site
scour monitoring system using visible light communication (VLC) modules for o shore wind turbine
installations. A ﬂume experiment revealed that the system was highly sensitive and accurate in
monitoring seabed scour processes. This arrayed-VLC sensory system, proposed in this paper, has
considerable potential for safety monitoring and also can contribute to improving the accuracy of
empirical scour formulas for sustainable maintenance in the life cycle of o shore structures.
Keywords: visible light communication system; o shore wind turbine foundation; scour; early
warning monitoring; life cycle
1. Introduction
Wind energy, in particular, o shore wind power, has been recognized as one of the highest
growing and the most important future renewable energy source [ 1,2]. Due to severe environmental
conditions—such as severe storms, typhoons, ocean currents, and waves—o shore wind farms face
more challenges in the issues of structure safety. Scour around the foundation of structure leads to the
excavation of sediment deposits, reducing the safe capacity of the structure [3,4].
The scour mechanism of o shore wind turbine foundation caused by waves and currents is quite
similar to bridge scour. From the studies of the past 30 years, ﬂooding and foundation scouring
was the primary cause of 600 bridges failed or collapse in the United States [ 5–14]. Average damage
repair on highways cost of ﬂooding in the United States is estimated to be $50 million per year [ 11].
A scour monitoring and early warning system must be developed for evaluating the safety of
structures. Moreover, conducting timely reinforcement and maintenance processes in response to
seabed topographical changes induced by current erosion and scour processes around these structures
Water 2019 ,11, 1486; doi:10.3390 /w11071486 www.mdpi.com /journal /water
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 2 of 16
is also needed. Information obtained from scour monitoring systems can help engineers to design
relatively safe and cost-e ective o shore wind farms.
The phenomenon of pier scour is extremely complex because of the combined e ects of the
vortex system involving time-dependent ﬂow patterns and sediment transport mechanisms. Scour
processes around structures have received considerable attention over the past decades. Numerous
studies have explored the mechanisms of hydraulic scour around foundations and have presented
several formulas for scour depth estimation around piers. Most studies on scour have applied
experimental ﬂumes and mainly focused on the application of empirical regression equations for
estimating the maximum scour depth. However, ﬁeld data are limited because of the di culties
associated with long-term measurement processes. Without su cient ﬁeld measurement data, such
empirical equations may not be su ciently accurate for ﬁeld applications. In general, when a steady
current encounters a cylindrical vertical foundation, the ﬂow rate increases around the periphery of
the foundation, producing a complex hydraulic ﬂow such as a bow wave, a downﬂow in front of the
pier, a horseshoe vortex, and a highly turbulent wake in the downstream region of the foundation.
These combined e ects of hydraulic scour lead to the erosion of sediments from the foundation in
all directions and reduce the loading capacity of the foundation, thereby compromising the safety of
the supported structure [ 5–17]. Uncertainties regarding the maximum scour depth around o shore
wind turbines lead to complications in their design and risks in their operation. Several methods have
been proposed for estimating or monitoring the maximum scour depth around structures. A real-time
scour monitoring system can improve the safety of structures and a ord cost-e ective operations by
preventing premature or unnecessary maintenance [17].
In general, the di culty associated with developing measuring instruments with data acquisition
systems is ensuring their durability in monitoring large-scale hydraulic and transportation structures
under severe conditions. The Keulegan–Carpenter number (KC) was applied to realize the foundation
uncertainties of marine wind farm structures scour [ 18]. There were many works focused on the
vibration-based approaches to monitoring the structural health status of the wind turbine [ 19–21]. For
example, a distributed-spring foundation model to estimate the variation of natural frequencies and
provide a strategy for addressing scour-induced damage around monopile foundations has used [ 22].
Full-scale o shore wind turbines with tripod structure were analyzed using real structural features
and three-dimensional (3D) ﬁnite element models; the results show that scouring has a slight e ect on
natural frequency data [ 23]. Another study employed nonlinear springs to simulate the interaction
between the foundation of a wind turbine and soil subjected to di erent wind, wave, and current
loads—reﬂecting operational conditions—to determine the e ects of scour on sti ness properties.
The results revealed that scour considerably altered the eigen frequency of the structure compared
with that of an o shore monopile wind turbine with scour protection [ 24,25]. Furthermore, a study
applied 3D computational ﬂuid dynamics (CFD) to develop a numerical model to examine the seabed
boundary-layer ﬂow around monopile and hexagonal gravity-based foundations of o shore wind
turbines; the ﬂow was examined to determine the formation of horseshoe vortices and ﬂow structures
to estimate potential scour for engineering designs. The results showed that the horseshoe vortex size
for the hexagonal gravity-based foundation was smaller than that for the monopile foundation [ 26–30].
Another study also proposed a wireless network monitoring system connected to an array of small
capacitive sensor probes installed around a foundation for observing scour and sediment deposition
processes; this system is similar to a sonar scanning approach [31].
The foundation of an o shore wind turbine constitutes approximately 35% of the installation
cost of such a turbine [ 32]. Construction sites for o shore wind farms are typically surveyed using
dierent investigation approaches or hydraulic models such as bathymetry, seismometry, and side-scan
sonar techniques before and after the main construction phase. However, as mentioned, the seabed
topography changes constantly because of sea currents. Because uncertainties regarding seabed erosion
and scour constitute a major risk for o shore wind farm development, the design and operation of
oshore wind turbines should mainly focus on addressing the uncertainty regarding the maximum
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 3 of 16
scour depth around the foundations of such turbines. In order to protect against the erosion of the
oshore wind turbine foundation, rock dump is usually laid to prevent removal of the sediment base.
However, edge scour still continues to occur despite the foundation protective devices installed [ 33].
With the advancement of artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) technology, machine learning (ML) and deep learning
(DL) will have a better contribution to o shore wind turbine condition monitoring [ 34–49]. Artiﬁcial
intelligence (AI) is basically an algorithm for regression analysis of existing big data rules which
include machine learning, deep learning, genetic algorithm, neural network, and fuzzy. Generally, the
multilayer perceptron (MLP) neural network is commonly used as an AI model prediction. Feature
extraction from the multiple linear regression (MLR) and multivariate nonlinear regression (MNLR)
properties of supervised and unsupervised learning need to compare with existing empirical equations.
To accurately predict the scouring process by means of inductive modeling, the AI modeling process
still requires a large amount of data as training, test, and viliﬁed dataset to analyze the sensitivity of
the model. Once the scour depth can be measured, empirical formulas for measuring scour processes
can be developed. Most of the current formulas are based on laboratory-based research models,
engineering design assessments, and measurement experience after in situ scouring. However, due
to the lack of reliable and durable instrumentation technology, scour data from real-time monitoring
systems is still insu cient.
An on-site scour monitoring system using visible light communication (VLC) for o shore wind
turbine is proposed in this paper. Speciﬁcally, the monitoring system consists of arrays of small VLC
modules attached directly to a pile structure and use the topology of the underwater optical wireless
sensor network to enable remote data acquisition. Experiments conducted in ﬂumes have revealed
that the system was highly sensitive and accurate to monitor seabed scour processes. The proposed
robust sensory monitoring system has considered for further on-site applications and as an indicator to
improve the empirical scour formulas for sustainable maintenance in the life cycle of o shore structures.
2. Underwater VLC T urbidity and Velocity Characteristics
VLC, a novel free-space optical wireless communication technology, entails the combination
of white and colored light-emitting diodes (LEDs) to utilize visible light (375–780 nm) as
a transmission medium.
VLC is becoming an alternative choice for wireless technology because of its low operating cost,
low maintenance cost, long-term service stability, broad bandwidth, and ubiquitous infrastructure
support. Numerous studies have been conducted in both industry and academia to develop and
commercialize VLC systems. Particularly, underwater wireless communication is of great interest to
the marine industry and scientiﬁc society [ 50]. With the rapid development of solid-state lighting and
semiconductor technology, VLC modules equipped with LEDs as light sources are expected to be mass
produced at low cost. This technology has potential for use in a wide range of both indoor and outdoor
applications for free communication services. Indoor VLC for an optical wireless communication
system using LED lights was ﬁrstly proposed in 2004 with its high brightness, reliability, lower power
consumption, and long lifetime advantages [50].
Measuring water turbidity has been widely developed over the past few decades. Theoretically,
water turbidity was measured based on absorption, attenuation, and scattering e ects by using
spectrometers or photometric devices. For example, the acoustic Doppler velocimeter (ADV) measured
the ﬂowing velocity [ 51] while the optical laser Doppler velocimeter (LDV) [ 52] estimated the Doppler
frequency shift (DFS) of coherent sound or light caused by the particle concentration in water. However,
because of its size and inconvenient implementation, ADV and LDV are not suitable for measuring
seabed turbidity and scouring. For o shore wind turbine foundation scour monitoring, the attenuation
and absorption characters of the VLC measurement system in seawater, particularly the turbidity of
the scouring suspension particles, need to be studied ﬁrst.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 4 of 16
Typically, Beer’s law (also known as Beer–Lambert law) is a well-known optical law and commonly
applied to derive the relationship in between absorption coe cient, optical path length, and the media
concentration in spectroscopy from a continuous wave [53,54].
h(D)=hce c()D(1)
where c ()=a()+b()is the cumulative attenuation coe cient of the medium, a()and b ()
denote the absorption coe cient and scattering coe cient, respectively. Typically, stands for the
light wavelength, D is the communication distance, h(D) is the output or detected intensity, hcis the
input intensity.
VLC system implemented for underwater turbidity and scour laboratory demonstration in this
paper, a nearby 2 cm distance of transmitter and receiver are arranged for less multiple scattering e ects
and avoided long distance channel attenuation loss. However, there are higher power optical lasers
and higher intensity LEDs for long distance optical wireless communications (OWCs) which have less
length intensity dispersion and improved the channel scattering e ects [ 55]. A VLC system in the
order of 100–200 m, and up to 300 m has been used to transmit data in the water environment [ 56,57].
However, due to the properties of oceanic turbulence such as the suspended particles, salinity, and
temperature, the line-of-sight path attenuation loss is estimated by the radiative transfer equation
(RTE). The vector RTE, implies energy conservation of a light wave traversing a scattering medium,
is calculated by
"
1
c@
@t+r#
 (t,,)=Z
4(,,0) (,,0)d0 () (t,,)+F(t,,) (2)
Herein,is the direction vector while is the position vector. rpresents the divergence operator with
respect to, is the irradiance, Fis the internal source radiance, and is the volume scattering function.
Experimental results obtained in our previous study demonstrated the feasibility of the VLC
modules for executing both water turbidity and water ﬂow velocity measurements [ 58]. To prevent the
eects of ambient light, the proposed system applies a sinusoidal signal to modulate the VLC module.
Figure 1 describes both the sinusoidal signal from the VLC transmitter and the interference signals from
ambient light sources, obtained on the receiver side. Normally, VLC modules operate at a frequency of
a few megahertz. The frequency of ambient light intensity changes is slower than that of the designed
sinusoidal signal, bandpass ﬁlters implemented on the VLC receiver. Therefore, the VLC can receive
the in-band sinusoidal signal and eliminate the interference signals of out-of-band frequencies; thus,
the problems associated with ambient light interference are prevented in the proposed system.
Water 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 16 
 Typically, Beer’s law (also known as Beer–Lam bert law) is a well-known optical law and 
commonly applied to derive the relationship in be tween absorption coefficient, optical path length, 
and the media concentration in spectrosco py from a continuous wave [53,54]. 
h(Dሻ=ℎ ௖ 𝑒ି௖(ఒሻ஽ (1) 
where c (λሻ=a(λሻ൅b ( λ ሻ  is the cumulative attenuation coefficient of the medium, a(λሻ and b (λሻ 
denote the absorption coefficient and scatte ring coefficient, respectively. Typically, λ stands for the 
light wavelength, D is the communication distan ce, h(D) is the output or detected intensity,  ℎ௖ is the 
input intensity. 
VLC system implemented for underwater turbidity and scour laboratory demonstration in this 
paper, a nearby 2 cm distance of transmitter and receiver are arranged for less multiple scattering 
effects and avoided long distance channel attenuatio n loss. However, there are higher power optical 
lasers and higher intensity LEDs for long distance optical wireless communications (OWCs) which have less length intensity dispersion and improved the channel scattering effects [55]. A VLC system 
in the order of 100–200 m, and up to 300 m has b een used to transmit data in the water environment 
[56,57]. However, due to the properties of ocea nic turbulence such as the suspended particles, 
salinity, and temperature, the line-of-sight path attenuation loss is estimated by the radiative transfer 
equation (RTE). The vector RTE, implies energy conservation of a light wave traversing a scattering 
medium, is calculated by 
൤1
𝑐𝜕
𝜕𝑡൅α∙∇ ൨𝜓 (𝑡, ρ, α ሻ= න 𝜉 ( 𝜌 ,𝛼 ,𝛼 ′ ሻ 𝜓 ( 𝜌 ,𝛼 ,𝛼 ′ ሻ 𝑑 𝛼 ′
ସగെ𝜅(𝜆ሻ𝜓(𝑡, 𝜌, 𝛼 ሻ൅Φ (𝑡, 𝜌, 𝛼 ሻ  (2) 
Herein, α is the direction vector while ρ is the position vector. ∇ presents the divergence 
operator with respect to ρ, ψ is the irradiance, Φ is the internal source radiance, and ξ is the volume 
scattering function. 
Experimental results obtained in our previous study demonstrated the fe asibility of the VLC 
modules for executing both water turbidity and wate r flow velocity measurements [58]. To prevent 
the effects of ambient light, the proposed system applies a sinusoidal signal to modulate the VLC 
module. Figure 1 describes both the sinusoidal sign al from the VLC transmitter and the interference 
signals from ambient light sources, obtained on th e receiver side. Normally, VLC modules operate at 
a frequency of a few megahertz. The frequency of ambient light intensity changes is slower than that of the designed sinusoidal signal, bandpass filters implemented on the VLC receiver. Therefore, the 
VLC can receive the in-band sinusoidal signal and eliminate the interference  signals of out-of-band 
frequencies; thus, the problems associated with ambient light interference are prevented in the 
proposed system. 
 
Figure 1. Flowchart of signal processing for wate r flow velocity/turbidity measurement. 
Figure 1. Flowchart of signal processing for water ﬂow velocity /turbidity measurement.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 5 of 16
2.1. Water Turbidity Measurement
For water turbidity measurement, assume that ytis the sampled version of the received signal
y(t)at a sampling rate of ftand window size of Nt-point. The root mean square (RMS) value of ytcan
be computed as
yRMS=s
ytyT
t
Nt(3)
Assume that y0is the reference RMS value of transparent water. The di erence between yRMS
and y0can then be calculated as
DRMS=y0 yRMS (4)
Notably, Equation (4) is the attenuated power energy caused by the attenuated light path through
the turbid water. The proposed system applies DRMS to measure water turbidity.
2.2. Water Flow Velocity Measurement
Figure 1 presents the signal processing setup for water ﬂow velocity measurement, where
yv=[yv,1,:::,yv,Nv]is the sampled version of the received signal y(t)at a sampling rate of fv
and window size of Nv-point. The envelope of the received signal yvis computed to outline the
characteristics of the signal. Let the Hilbert transform of yvbe~yv=[eyv,1,:::,eyv,Nv]. The envelope of
the received signal yvcan be expressed as
ˆyv=[ˆyv,1,:::,ˆyv,Nv] (5)
in which ˆyi=q
y2
v,i+ey2
v,i,i=1,:::,Nv. The frequency of the envelope from the received signal can
be obtained as
yF=[yF,1,:::,yF,Nv]==(ˆyv) (6)
where=()describes the Fourier transform operation. Herein, only half of yFis considered due to the
symmetric property of the frequency response (i.e.,h
yF,1,:::,yF,Nv/2i
). To remove the direct current
(DC), the system applies a frequency-domain DC-block ﬁlter with the coe cients
hDC=h
h1,:::,hNv/2i
(7)
where hi=(
1,ipcut
0,ipcut,i=1,:::,Nv/2.
In Equation (7), pcut=[(fv/2+fcut)(Nv 1)/fv+1] Nv/2, and fcutrepresents the DC-block
ﬁlter of the desired cuto frequency. The DC-block ﬁlter provides
yDC=h
yDC,1,:::,yDC,Nv/2i
(8)
in which yDC,i=yF,ihi,i=1,:::,Nv/2.
The Gaussian smoothing ﬁlter is applied to smooth the frequency response yDC
yG=yDC
g (9)
where g=[g1,:::, gLi
shows the L-point ﬁlter coe cients and gi=e( 1
22)[(2/L 1)(i 1) 1]2
,i=1, 2:::L,
herein, thecontains the variance of the Gaussian coe cients. In the proposed system, the ﬂowing
velocity is measured from the frequency response in Equation (9).
Figure 2 depicts the experimental system for the water turbidity and water ﬂow velocity
measurement processes. The water ﬂow was generated by a pump driven by a 1 /6-hp motor in
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 6 of 16
a 0.35 m wide and 2 m long ﬂume. Four release holes were established at the end of the water channel
to control the amount of water released. The sluice has been applied to the water ﬂow channel to
steadily control the water level of the ﬂowing water. The turbidity of the ﬂowing water was slight
adding ﬁne sand to the water. Sieving sediments of uniform sand with a diameter of 0.88 mm were
used in this experiment. A 0.2 0.2 m pier made by a transparent acrylic column with VLC sensors
was placed in the middle of the ﬂume.
Water 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 16 
 Figure 2 depicts the experimental system fo r the water turbidity and water flow velocity 
measurement processes. The water flow was gene rated by a pump driven by a 1/6-hp motor  in a 0.35 
m wide and 2 m long flume. Four release holes were  established at the end of the water channel to 
control the amount of water released. The sluice  has been applied to the water flow channel to 
steadily control the water level of the flowing water. The turbidity of the flowing water was slight adding fine sand to the water. Sieving sediments of uniform sand with a diameter of 0.88 mm were 
used in this experiment. A 0.2 × 0.2 m pier made by a transparent acrylic column with VLC sensors was placed in the middle of the flume. 
 
Figure 2. E xperimental setup consisting of A: VLC sensor (Tx & Rx); B, C, D: waveform signal 
generator; E: input waveform signal monitoring; F: sensor signal response monitoring. 
2.3. Experimental Setup for Water Turbidity Measurement 
A sinusoidal signal with the frequency of 1 MHz was generated from the arbitrary waveform 
generator (AWG) in this turbidity measurement and st ayed an amplitude of 0.2 V. The received signal 
was then obtained from the oscilloscope at a sampling rate of 1.024 Ghztf=  with a window size of 
10240tN= . From Equations (3) and (4), RMSΔ  values were computed. In this experiment, signal 
measurements were conducted at water turbidity le vels of 0, 200, 400, 600, 800, 1000, and 1200 ppm 
and at two water flow velocities of 83.14 q and 136.40 q, where 2(Liter) (second meter )q=× . 
2.4. Experimental Setup for Wa ter Flow Velocity Measurement 
As mentioned, the sinusoidal signal was genera ted from the AWG. Signals were captured on the 
oscilloscope using a sampling rate of 50 hzvf=  with a window size of 500vN=  to estimate the 
flowing velocity. The envelope of the received signal ˆvy was then calculated using Equation (5) and 
the DC-blocked frequency of the received signal DCy has computed from Equations (6)–(8). Finally, 
the Gaussian smoothing filter with a variance of 1.8 σ=  and a window size of 45L=  was 
substituted into the smoothed frequency Gy in Equation (9). The flowing velocities were set to be 
25.98 q, 83.14 q, and 136.40 q in the experiments. 
Figure 3a shows the received signals at turbidity le vels of 0, 200, 600, and 1000 ppm and at a 
water flow velocity of 83.14 q. The attenuation of the amplitude of  the received signals increased in 
Figure 2. Experimental setup consisting of A: VLC sensor (Tx & Rx); B,C,D: waveform signal generator;
E: input waveform signal monitoring; F: sensor signal response monitoring.
2.3. Experimental Setup for Water Turbidity Measurement
A sinusoidal signal with the frequency of 1 MHz was generated from the arbitrary waveform
generator (AWG) in this turbidity measurement and stayed an amplitude of 0.2 V . The received signal
was then obtained from the oscilloscope at a sampling rate of ft=1.024 Ghz with a window size of
Nt=10, 240 . From Equations (3) and (4), DRMS values were computed. In this experiment, signal
measurements were conducted at water turbidity levels of 0, 200, 400, 600, 800, 1000, and 1200 ppm
and at two water ﬂow velocities of 83.14 qand 136.40 q, where q=(Liter)/(secondmeter2).
2.4. Experimental Setup for Water Flow Velocity Measurement
As mentioned, the sinusoidal signal was generated from the AWG. Signals were captured on
the oscilloscope using a sampling rate of fv=50hzwith a window size of Nv=500to estimate the
ﬂowing velocity. The envelope of the received signal ˆyvwas then calculated using Equation (5) and the
DC-blocked frequency of the received signal yDChas computed from Equations (6)–(8). Finally, the
Gaussian smoothing ﬁlter with a variance of =1.8and a window size of L=45was substituted
into the smoothed frequency yGin Equation (9). The ﬂowing velocities were set to be 25.98 q, 83.14 q,
and 136.40 qin the experiments.
Figure 3a shows the received signals at turbidity levels of 0, 200, 600, and 1000 ppm and at
a water ﬂow velocity of 83.14 q. The attenuation of the amplitude of the received signals increased in
accordance with the water turbidity levels. Figure 3b illustrates the relationship between DRMS values
and water turbidity levels at the water ﬂow velocities of 83.14 qand 136.40 q. It seems that a linear
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 7 of 16
relationship was observed between the DRMS values and triﬂing water turbidity levels. Furthermore,
DRMS values computed at di erent ﬂowing velocities were approximately the same. It shows that
DRMS is independent of the ﬂowing velocity in the experiment.
Water 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 7 of 16 
 accordance with the water turbidity levels. Figure 3b illustrates the relationship between RMSΔ  
values and water turbidity levels at the water flow velocities of 83.14 q and 136.40 q. It seems that a 
linear relationship was observed between the RMSΔ  values and trifling water turbidity levels. 
Furthermore, RMSΔ  values computed at different flowing velo cities were approximately the same. It 
shows that RMSΔ  is independent of the flowing velocity in the experiment. 
 
Figure 3. (a) Received signals at turbidity levels of 0, 200, 600, and 1000 ppm and at water a flow 
velocity of 83.14 q; (b) water turbidity levels versus RMSΔ  values. 
Figure 4 shows the turbidity effect in nephelometric units (NTU) of the output voltage value for 
VLC, blue LED, and infrared LED (IR LED). VLC turb idity data was tested in the flowing flume with 
suspension particles distribution while the blue LE D and IR LED turbidity data is obtained from the 
standard specimen. As shown in Figure 4, the VLC data have a slightly variated than the blue LED 
and IR LED, this variation is because the flowing su spension particles of the scattering, attenuation, 
and absorption effects have a significant influence on  the measurement in the water. It is well-known 
that the on-line resolution of the experiment prog ress is highly dependent on the measurement angle 
of the sensor between the transmitter and the receiver. In addition, the ambient indoor light would be a noise resource which affects the performance of VLC during the experiment progress. Despite the influence of these factors, the nonlinear nature of turbidity which actually responds in exponential form to the light intensity was obviously obtained from the VLC monitoring system. 
 
Figure 4. Turbidity effect in nephelometric units (NTU). 
Voltage (m V)
Figure 3. (a) Received signals at turbidity levels of 0, 200, 600, and 1000 ppm and at water a ﬂow
velocity of 83.14 q; (b) water turbidity levels versus DRMS values.
Figure 4 shows the turbidity e ect in nephelometric units (NTU) of the output voltage value for
VLC, blue LED, and infrared LED (IR LED). VLC turbidity data was tested in the ﬂowing ﬂume with
suspension particles distribution while the blue LED and IR LED turbidity data is obtained from the
standard specimen. As shown in Figure 4, the VLC data have a slightly variated than the blue LED
and IR LED, this variation is because the ﬂowing suspension particles of the scattering, attenuation,
and absorption e ects have a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the measurement in the water. It is well-known
that the on-line resolution of the experiment progress is highly dependent on the measurement angle
of the sensor between the transmitter and the receiver. In addition, the ambient indoor light would be
a noise resource which a ects the performance of VLC during the experiment progress. Despite the
inﬂuence of these factors, the nonlinear nature of turbidity which actually responds in exponential
form to the light intensity was obviously obtained from the VLC monitoring system.
Water 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 7 of 16 
 accordance with the water turbidity levels. Figure 3b illustrates the relationship between RMSΔ  
values and water turbidity levels at the water flow velocities of 83.14 q and 136.40 q. It seems that a 
linear relationship was observed between the RMSΔ  values and trifling water turbidity levels. 
Furthermore, RMSΔ  values computed at different flowing velo cities were approximately the same. It 
shows that RMSΔ  is independent of the flowing velocity in the experiment. 
 
Figure 3. (a) Received signals at turbidity levels of 0, 200, 600, and 1000 ppm and at water a flow 
velocity of 83.14 q; (b) water turbidity levels versus RMSΔ  values. 
Figure 4 shows the turbidity effect in nephelometric units (NTU) of the output voltage value for 
VLC, blue LED, and infrared LED (IR LED). VLC turb idity data was tested in the flowing flume with 
suspension particles distribution while the blue LE D and IR LED turbidity data is obtained from the 
standard specimen. As shown in Figure 4, the VLC data have a slightly variated than the blue LED 
and IR LED, this variation is because the flowing su spension particles of the scattering, attenuation, 
and absorption effects have a significant influence on  the measurement in the water. It is well-known 
that the on-line resolution of the experiment prog ress is highly dependent on the measurement angle 
of the sensor between the transmitter and the receiver. In addition, the ambient indoor light would be a noise resource which affects the performance of VLC during the experiment progress. Despite the influence of these factors, the nonlinear nature of turbidity which actually responds in exponential form to the light intensity was obviously obtained from the VLC monitoring system. 
 
Figure 4. Turbidity effect in nephelometric units (NTU). 
Voltage (m V)
Figure 4. Turbidity e ect in nephelometric units (NTU).
According to the results of the underwater turbidity and water ﬂow velocity experiments in
Section 2, we see that the communication light path of the VLC modules can be sensitively a ected by
turbulent movement of particles in water. In the following sections, the study further examines the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 8 of 16
eects of this notable phenomenon on real-time scour measurement by conducting real-time scour
measurement and Hilbert transform analysis.
3. VLC Scour Experiment
An experiment was conducted in a 6 m wide and 30 m long ﬂume, as depicted in Figure 5. Eight
VLC sensors including the transmitter (Tx) and the receiver (Rx) were installed in the pier. Sensor 1
was located 5-cm below the bed surface. These sensors were arranged in two rows of eight sensors
separated by 5-cm intervals in the vertical direction. The sampling rate was set to 100 Hz to record
the time history throughout the scour experiment. Uniform sand with a diameter of 0.88 mm was
paved as the bed material in the ﬂume. The approach velocity of the steady current was set to be
0.5 m /s. All dynamic data were monitored through the experimental setup shown in Figure 5. Figure 5
illustrates the scour responses recorded by individual sensors. These responses were further analyzed
using the proposed Hilbert–Huang transform (HHT) process.
Water 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 16 
 According to the results of the underwater turbidity and water flow velocity experiments in 
Section 2, we see that the communication light path of the VLC modules can be sensitively affected 
by turbulent movement of particles in water. In the following sections, the study further examines 
the effects of this notable phenomenon on real -time scour measurement by conducting real-time 
scour measurement and Hilbert transform analysis. 
3. VLC Scour Experiment 
An experiment was conducted in a 6 m wide and 30 m long flume, as depicted in Figure 5. Eight 
VLC sensors including the transmitter (Tx) and the receiver (Rx) were installed in the pier. Sensor 1 was located 5-cm below the bed surface. These sens ors were arranged in two rows of eight sensors 
separated by 5-cm intervals in the vertical direction. The sampling rate was set to 100 Hz to record 
the time history throughout the scour experiment. Uniform sand with a diameter of 0.88 mm was paved as the bed material in the fl ume. The approach velocity of the steady current was set to be 0.5 
m/s. All dynamic data we re monitored through the experimental setup shown in Figure 5. Figure 5 
illustrates the scour responses recorded by indi vidual sensors. These responses were further 
analyzed using the proposed Hilber t–Huang transform (HHT) process. 
 
Figure 5. Hydraulic flume test an d experimental setup. 
Initially, all the sensors are em bedded in the soil and the transmit signal cannot be detected by 
the receiver sensors. At the early stage, the scou r depth increases significantly while inflow runs 
through the pier. As the embedded VLC sensor scoure d from the soil due to scour, the significant 
signal of the waveform can be easily obtained. An  obvious example of the sensors 3 and 4 is shown 
in Figure 6. The variation of waveform magnitude is  due to the turbidity and velocity of the turbulent 
flow that contains time-depended suspension particles.  As seen in Figure 6, the scour depth increases 
gradually after 1 h. Around 2.5 h, a total scour depth of 30 cm is measured in this test, which may be close to the equilibrium state. As experiment finis hed, the scour hole can be observed as shown in 
Figure 5.  A small camera recorded the scouring process as a comparison to valid the scour depth 
evolution measured by the VLC. An empirical scour formula with the nonlinear nature of flowing water which responds in exponential form to the light intensity for the VLC monitoring system is also obtained as shown in Figure 6. 
Figure 5. Hydraulic ﬂume test and experimental setup.
Initially, all the sensors are embedded in the soil and the transmit signal cannot be detected by the
receiver sensors. At the early stage, the scour depth increases signiﬁcantly while inﬂow runs through
the pier. As the embedded VLC sensor scoured from the soil due to scour, the signiﬁcant signal of the
waveform can be easily obtained. An obvious example of the sensors 3 and 4 is shown in Figure 6.
The variation of waveform magnitude is due to the turbidity and velocity of the turbulent ﬂow that
contains time-depended suspension particles. As seen in Figure 6, the scour depth increases gradually
after 1 h. Around 2.5 h, a total scour depth of 30 cm is measured in this test, which may be close to
the equilibrium state. As experiment ﬁnished, the scour hole can be observed as shown in Figure 5.
A small camera recorded the scouring process as a comparison to valid the scour depth evolution
measured by the VLC. An empirical scour formula with the nonlinear nature of ﬂowing water which
responds in exponential form to the light intensity for the VLC monitoring system is also obtained as
shown in Figure 6.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 9 of 16
Water 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 9 of 16 
  
Figure 6. Monitoring interface and re corded scour responses. 
4. HHT and Data Analysis 
4.1. Instantaneous Frequency 
Traditionally, a Fourier spectrum is evaluated us ing sine and cosine basis functions with a fixed 
amplitude. However, signals vary with time limitin g the applicability of the fast Fourier transform; 
moreover, obtaining the instantaneous frequency (IF)  at any specific time is impractical. For a 
structure affected by an earthquake, understanding the frequency variation is imperative. The Hilbert transform is widely used for nonlinear and nonstationary cases, facilitating the analysis of a time-varying signal. A measured signal can be expressed in the form of a complex number to determine the instantaneous amplitude a(t) and instantaneous phase θ(t), and the IF ω(t) can then be determined 
[59,60]. The Hilbert transform can be  defined as the convolution between X(t) and 1/ t. For any time 
series 
()Xτ, the Hilbert transform Y(t) can be expressed as 
()() 1 XYt P dtττπτ∞
−∞=−  (10) 
where P represents the Cauchy principal value. 
Combining X(t) and Y(t) into a conjugate complex number yields an analytic signal Z(t) 
()() () () ()itZtX t i Y ta t eθ=+=  (11) 
For example,  
22() () ()at X t Y t =+  (12) 
()1() t a n () / ()tY t X tθ−=  (13) 
()() () /td t d tωθ=  (14) 
According to the analysis, the time–frequency–amplitude distribution of the time series can be 
obtained. 
4.2. Empirical Mode Decomposition 
In contrast to other decomposition methods, empirical mode decomposition (EMD) does not 
entail predetermining a basis function. In EMD, such  a function is directly obtained from the signal 
data; therefore, this method has considerable flexibility. EMD entails decomposing an original signal 
Sensor 1
Sensor 2
Sensor 3
Sensor 4
Sensor 5
Sensor 6
Sensor 7
Sensor 8
Scour depth
25 cm5 cm sand 
Sensor 3
Sensor 4
Figure 6. Monitoring interface and recorded scour responses.
4. HHT and Data Analysis
4.1. Instantaneous Frequency
Traditionally, a Fourier spectrum is evaluated using sine and cosine basis functions with a ﬁxed
amplitude. However, signals vary with time limiting the applicability of the fast Fourier transform;
moreover, obtaining the instantaneous frequency (IF) at any speciﬁc time is impractical. For a structure
aected by an earthquake, understanding the frequency variation is imperative. The Hilbert transform
is widely used for nonlinear and nonstationary cases, facilitating the analysis of a time-varying signal.
A measured signal can be expressed in the form of a complex number to determine the instantaneous
amplitude a(t) and instantaneous phase (t), and the IF !(t) can then be determined [ 59,60]. The Hilbert
transform can be deﬁned as the convolution between X(t) and 1 /t. For any time series X(), the Hilbert
transform Y(t) can be expressed as
Y(t)=1
P1Z
 1X()
t d (10)
where Prepresents the Cauchy principal value.
Combining X(t) and Y(t) into a conjugate complex number yields an analytic signal Z(t)
Z(t) =X(t) +iY(t) =a(t)ei(t)(11)
For example,
a(t) =q
X2(t) +Y2(t) (12)
(t) =tan 1(Y(t)/X(t)) (13)
!(t) =(d(t)/dt) (14)
According to the analysis, the time–frequency–amplitude distribution of the time series can
be obtained.
4.2. Empirical Mode Decomposition
In contrast to other decomposition methods, empirical mode decomposition (EMD) does not
entail predetermining a basis function. In EMD, such a function is directly obtained from the signal
data; therefore, this method has considerable ﬂexibility. EMD entails decomposing an original signal
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 10 of 16
into a ﬁnite number of intrinsic mode function (IMF) components; speciﬁcally, a signal is approximated
as a sum of zero-mean amplitude modulation and frequency modulation components. The ﬁnite
number of IMF components can be divided into high- and low-frequency partitions until a monotonic
function (trend) remains. The original data can be regarded as the sum of all IMF components and
trends. During analysis, if the time di erence between the extreme values represents the time scalar of
the intrawave, an optimal vibration modal resolution can be achieved and can be applied to nonzero
mean values as well as non-zero-crossing data. Thus, the original signal can be re-presented as
X(t)=nX
i=1ci+rn (15)
where Ciis the ith intrinsic mode functions; rnis the residual.
4.3. Ensemble EMD
EMD is often used as a signal disassembly method. EMD is used to decompose mixed signals
of dierent scales into di erent IMF components. However, a limitation of this approach is the
phenomenon called ‘mode mixing’. Speciﬁcally, during the EMD process, a low-amplitude oscillation
or an intermittent signal may exist in several IMF components; for example, a single modal component
may be decomposed into di erent IMF components, or a single IMF component may contain two
dierent modal signals, resulting in mode mixing within the IMF component. To solve this issue,
Ensemble EMD (EEMD) is proposed [ 61]. When EEMD is performed, a white noise wi(t) signal with
a limited amplitude is added to the original signal X(t); thus, the original signal is transformed as
Xi(t) =X(t)+wi(t) (16)
4.4. Hilbert Spectrum
As indicated in Equation (17), an IMF component can be converted from a time-domain to
a frequency-domain component; this process is called Hilbert spectral analysis (Figure 7)
X(t)=nX
j=1aj(t)exp 
iZ
!j(t)dt!
(17)
Although the Hilbert transform can process a monotonous trend and consider it a part of a longer
amplitude, the remaining energy may be excessively strong, considering the uncertainties of longer-term
trends and other low-energy elements and information contained in a high-frequency component. The
preceding formula provides a time function for each amplitude and frequency component, and this
formula can be expanded using a Fourier expression as
X(t)=1X
j=1ajei!jt(18)
where ajand wjare constants. Comparing Equations (17) and (18) reveals that the IMF can be
represented by a generalized Fourier expansion. Variables within the amplitude and the IF cannot only
improve the expansion but also render it applicable to unsteady signals. In terms of the expansion
of the IMF, the amplitude and the frequency modulation are clearly separated. The amplitude of the
time function and the IF can be combined as the time–frequency–amplitude spectrum; this spectrum is
referred to as the Hilbert amplitude spectrum.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 11 of 16
Water 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 11 of 16 
  
Figure 7. HHT calculation process. 
4.5. Analysis Results 
From recorded data, the time history data and HHT diagrams obtained for the first six sensors 
are plotted in Figure 8. The recorded time history is plotted on the top of each subplot and the corresponding Hilbert amplitude spectrum is shown in the bottom. The time-varying IF 
demonstrated nonlinear characteristics of the signals.  The x-axis represents the time history measured 
in seconds, and the energy density is illustrated at frequencies between 0 and 5 Hz, which contains the most energy of the vibration. 
The HHT diagram for channel 1 shown in Figure 8a  reveals a large energy distribution indicated 
by the significant yellow bar at approximately 90 s. This distribution can be attributed to the rapid jump in the time domain. Similarly, Figure 8b also reveals a yellow bar, indicating a sudden increase in the beginning of the time history. According to the color distribution in Figure 8b, more energy was covered in channel 2 than in channel 1, which fits well with the measured time histories. 
The HHT diagrams for channels 3 and 4 shown in Figure 8c,d, respectively, reveal a gradual 
shift of the yellow bar, which indicates the large variation section of energy in the time domain. Based 
on the result, the yellow bars in HHT diagrams can be  used to estimate the occurrence time of possible 
scour processes. Figure 8d indicates the scour phenomenon to occur between 150 and 200 s and then it continues till the end of the experiment; this figu re also reveals the energy distribution in channel 
4 to be greater than that in channel 3. 
Finally, as observed from the time history, significant vibration can be reflected from channel 5. 
Furthermore, the HHT diagram for channel 5 shown in Figure 8e reveals that the yellow energy bar 
is shifted to 300 s. It can be treated as a proper indicator to evaluate the scour depth, which follows 
the trend observed from the experiment. Additionally, the HHT diagram for channel 6 shown in Figure 8f reveals two peaks. In contrast to the ot her five sensors, the first yellow energy bar located 
at 300 s with the fundamental frequency between 0 and 2 Hz is not considered as scour phenomenon in the HHT diagram. As only slight energy is shown in the diagram, it can be neglected as a small vibration in the time domain. By combining Figures 7 and 8, a possible backbone scour curve can be 
established to provide a rapid estimation and ea rly warning for scour processes around a bridge. 
Figure 7. HHT calculation process.
4.5. Analysis Results
From recorded data, the time history data and HHT diagrams obtained for the ﬁrst six sensors
are plotted in Figure 8. The recorded time history is plotted on the top of each subplot and the
corresponding Hilbert amplitude spectrum is shown in the bottom. The time-varying IF demonstrated
nonlinear characteristics of the signals. The x-axis represents the time history measured in seconds,
and the energy density is illustrated at frequencies between 0 and 5 Hz, which contains the most energy
of the vibration.
The HHT diagram for channel 1 shown in Figure 8a reveals a large energy distribution indicated
by the signiﬁcant yellow bar at approximately 90 s. This distribution can be attributed to the rapid
jump in the time domain. Similarly, Figure 8b also reveals a yellow bar, indicating a sudden increase in
the beginning of the time history. According to the color distribution in Figure 8b, more energy was
covered in channel 2 than in channel 1, which ﬁts well with the measured time histories.
The HHT diagrams for channels 3 and 4 shown in Figure 8c,d, respectively, reveal a gradual shift
of the yellow bar, which indicates the large variation section of energy in the time domain. Based on
the result, the yellow bars in HHT diagrams can be used to estimate the occurrence time of possible
scour processes. Figure 8d indicates the scour phenomenon to occur between 150 and 200 s and then it
continues till the end of the experiment; this ﬁgure also reveals the energy distribution in channel 4 to
be greater than that in channel 3.
Finally, as observed from the time history, signiﬁcant vibration can be reﬂected from channel 5.
Furthermore, the HHT diagram for channel 5 shown in Figure 8e reveals that the yellow energy bar is
shifted to 300 s. It can be treated as a proper indicator to evaluate the scour depth, which follows the
trend observed from the experiment. Additionally, the HHT diagram for channel 6 shown in Figure 8f
reveals two peaks. In contrast to the other ﬁve sensors, the ﬁrst yellow energy bar located at 300 s with
the fundamental frequency between 0 and 2 Hz is not considered as scour phenomenon in the HHT
diagram. As only slight energy is shown in the diagram, it can be neglected as a small vibration in the
time domain. By combining Figures 7 and 8, a possible backbone scour curve can be established to
provide a rapid estimation and early warning for scour processes around a bridge.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 12 of 16
Water 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 16 
  
Figure 8. HHT diagrams for the first six sensors. 
5. Summary 
Offshore wind farms face more severe enviro nmental conditions such as severe storms, 
typhoons, ocean currents, and waves. Flow induce d scour around the foundation of structure is 
extremely complex. Scour leads to the excavation of  sediments, reducing the safe capacity of the 
structures. The phenomenon of pier scour combines the effects of the vortex system involving time-
dependent flow pattern and sediment transport me chanism. A real-time scour monitoring system 
can improve the safety of structures and afford cost -effective operations by preventing premature or 
unnecessary maintenance. Numerous studies have explored the mechanisms of hydraulic scour around foundations and have presented several form ulas for scour depth estimation around piers. 
However, scour data from real-time monitoring systems are still inadequate due to the lack of reliable 
and durable instrume ntation techniques. 
Figure 8. HHT diagrams for the ﬁrst six sensors.
5. Summary
Oshore wind farms face more severe environmental conditions such as severe storms, typhoons,
ocean currents, and waves. Flow induced scour around the foundation of structure is extremely
complex. Scour leads to the excavation of sediments, reducing the safe capacity of the structures.
The phenomenon of pier scour combines the e ects of the vortex system involving time-dependent
ﬂow pattern and sediment transport mechanism. A real-time scour monitoring system can improve
the safety of structures and a ord cost-e ective operations by preventing premature or unnecessary
maintenance. Numerous studies have explored the mechanisms of hydraulic scour around foundations
and have presented several formulas for scour depth estimation around piers. However, scour
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 13 of 16
data from real-time monitoring systems are still inadequate due to the lack of reliable and durable
instrumentation techniques.
Normally, water turbidity was measured based on absorption, attenuation, and scattering e ects
by using spectrometers or photometric devices. However, conventional estimation instruments are
usually bulky and costly. Experimental results obtained in this study demonstrated the feasibility of
the VLC modules for executing both water turbidity and water ﬂow velocity measurements.
According to the results of the underwater turbidity and water ﬂow velocity experiments, the
communication light path of the VLC modules can be sensitively a ected by turbulent movement
of particles in water. These notable phenomenon e ects could be further implemented as an early
warning structural health monitoring system by conducting real-time scour measurement and Hilbert
transform analysis. In this present study, an on-site scour monitoring system for o shore wind turbines
has been proposed; speciﬁcally, the monitoring system consists of arrays of small VLC modules
attached directly to a pile foundation structure and linked to a wireless network to enable remote
data acquisition has demonstrated. From the ﬂume experiment results, it revealed that the system
was highly sensitive to seabed scour processes. The proposed robust sensory monitoring system has
considered for further on-site applications and as an indicator to improve the empirical scour formulas
for sustainable maintenance in the life cycle of o shore structures.
From the result analysis, the VLC ray is easily a ected by the suspended particles in the water
and the turbidity, especially in the scouring process. Hence, the proposed arrayed-transmission
measurement method will be limited by the turbidity e ect. In the future work, it may be necessary to
cooperate with the reﬂection approach, as a supplement comparison, for simultaneous measuring the
back-scattering characters. Combining these two transmission and back-scattering implementations
would provide a better real-time approach to measure and discriminate turbidity, ﬂow velocity, and
scour depth. These data can be useful to establish a local scouring formula to evaluate structural safety.
Author Contributions: Y.-B.L., developed the methodology and took the lead in writing the manuscript. C.-C.C.,
and T.-K.L., provide data analyzed and results. C.-W.H., and B.-T.C., responsible for image measurement and data
collection. J.-S.L., and K.-C.C., revised the manuscript and suggestion to the manuscript.
Funding: This study is funded by Ministry of Science and Technology, Taiwan, under Grants MOST: 107-2625-M-492
-003, 106-2625-M-492-011, and 105-2625-M-492-016.
Acknowledgments: The authors would like to gratefully acknowledge the experimental sites from the National
Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering in Taiwan. In addition, the authors appreciate the Hydrotech
Research Institute of National Taiwan University for facilities and support.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Igwemeziea, V .; Mehmanparasta, A.; Koliosa, A. Current trend in o shore wind energy sector and material
requirements for fatigue resistance improvement in large wind turbine support structures—A review. Renew.
Sustain. Energy Rev. 2019 ,101, 181–196. [CrossRef]
2. Willis, D.J.; Niezrecki, C.; Kuchma, D.; Hines, E.; Arwade, S.R.; Barthelmie, R.J.; DiPaola, M.; Drane, P .J.;
Hansen, C.J.; Inalpolat, M.; et al. Wind energy research: State-of-the-art and future research directions.
Renew. Energy 2018 ,125, 133–154. [CrossRef]
3. Ma, H.; Yang, J.; Chen, L. E ect of scour on the structural response of an o shore wind turbine supported on
tripod foundation. Appl. Ocean Res. 2018 ,73, 179–189. [CrossRef]
4. Li, H.; Ong, M.C.; Leira, B.J.; Myrhaug, D. E ects of soil proﬁle variation and scour on structural response of
an oshore monopile wind turbine. J. Oshore Mech. Arct. Eng. 2018 ,140, 042001. [CrossRef]
5. Chiew, Y.M.; Melville, B.W. Local scour around bridge piers. J. Hydraul. Eng. ASCE 1987 ,25, 15–26.
[CrossRef]
6. Melville, B.W.; Chiew, Y.M. Time scale for local scour at bridge piers. J. Hydraul. Eng. ASCE 1999 ,125, 59–65.
[CrossRef]
7. Melville, B.W. Pier and abutment scour: Integrated approach. J. Hydraul. Eng. ASCE 1997 ,123, 125–136.
[CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 14 of 16
8. Briaud, J.L.; Ting, F.C.K.; Chen, H.C. Erosion function apparatus for scour rate predictions. J. Geotech.
Geoenviron. Eng. 2001 ,127, 105–113. [CrossRef]
9. Briaud, J.L.; Ting, F.C.K.; Chen, H.C. SRICOS: Prediction of scour rate in cohesive soils at bridge piers.
J. Geotech. Geoenviron. Eng. 1999 ,125, 237–246. [CrossRef]
10. Shirole, A.M. Bridge management to the Year 2020 and beyond. Transp. Res. Rec. 2010 ,2202 , 159–164.
[CrossRef]
11. Lagasse, P .F.; Richardson, E.V . ASCE compendium of stream stability and bridge scour papers. J. Hydraul.
Eng. ASCE 2001 ,127, 531–533. [CrossRef]
12. Wardhana, K.; Hadipriono, F.C. Analysis of recent bridge failures in the United States. J. Perform. Constr.
Facil. 2003 ,17, 144–150. [CrossRef]
13. Roulund, A.; Sumer, B.M.; Fredsoe, J. Numerical and experimental investigation of ﬂow and scour around
a circular pile. J. Fluid Mech. 2005 ,534, 351–401. [CrossRef]
14. Lin, Y.B.; Chen, J.C.; Chang, K.C. Real-time monitoring of local scour by using ﬁber Bragg grating sensors.
Smart Mater. Struct. 2005 ,14, 664–670. [CrossRef]
15. Lin, Y.B.; Lai, J.S.; Chang, K.C. Flood scour monitoring system using ﬁber Bragg grating sensors. Smart Mater.
Struct. 2006 ,15, 1950–1959. [CrossRef]
16. Lin, Y.B.; Lai, J.S.; Chang, K.C.; Chang, W.Y.; Lee, F.Z.; Tan, Y.C. Using MEMS sensors in the bridge scour
monitoring system. J. Chin. Inst. Eng. 2010 ,33, 25–35. [CrossRef]
17. Prendergast, L.J.; Gavin, K. A review of bridge scour monitoring techniques. J. Rock Mech. Geotech. Eng.
2014 ,6, 138–149. [CrossRef]
18. Luengo, J.; Negro, V .; Garcia-Barba, J. New detected uncertainties in the design of foundations for o shore
Wind Turbines. Renew. Energy 2019 ,131, 667–677. [CrossRef]
19. Oliveira, G.; Magalhaes, F.; Cunha, A. Vibration-based damage detection in a wind turbine using 1 year of
data. Struct. Control Health Monit. 2018 ,25, 1–22. [CrossRef]
20. Prendergast, L.J.; Gavin, K.; Doherty, P . An investigation into the e ect of scour on the natural frequency of
an oshore wind turbine. Ocean Eng. 2015 ,101, 1–11. [CrossRef]
21. Tseng, W.C.; Kuo, Y.S.; Lu, K.C.; Chen, J.W.; Chung, C.F.; Chen, R.C. E ect of scour on the natural frequency
responses of the meteorological mast in the Taiwan Strait. Energies 2018 ,11, 823. [CrossRef]
22. Tseng, W.C.; Kuo, Y.S.; Chen, J.W. An investigation into the e ect of scour on the loading and deformation
responses of monopile foundations. Energies 2017 ,10, 1190. [CrossRef]
23. Chen, W.I.; Wong, B.L.; Lin, Y.H.; Chau, S.W.; Huang, H.H. Design and analysis of jacket substructures for
oshore wind turbines. Energies 2016 ,9, 264. [CrossRef]
24. Yang, W.; Tian, W. Concept research of a countermeasure device for preventing scour around the monopole
foundations of o shore wind turbines. Energies 2018 ,11, 2593. [CrossRef]
25. Yu, T.; Lian, J.; Shi, Z. Experimental investigation of current-induced local scour around composite bucket
foundation in silty sand. Ocean Eng. 2016 ,117, 311–320. [CrossRef]
26. Esteban, M.D.; Counago, B.; Lopez-Gutierrez, J.S. Gravity based support structures for o shore wind turbine
generators: Review of the installation process. Ocean Eng. 2015 ,110, 281–291. [CrossRef]
27. McGovern, D.J.; Ilic, S.; Folkard, A.M. Time development of scour around a cylinder in simulated tidal
currents. J. Hydraul. Eng. 2014 ,140, 04014014. [CrossRef]
28. Michalis, P .; Saaﬁ, M.; Judd, M. Capacitive sensors for o shore scour monitoring. Proc. Inst. Civ. Eng. Energy
2013 ,166, 189–196. [CrossRef]
29. Harris, J.M.; Whitehouse, R.J.S.; Benson, T. The time evolution of scour around o shore structures. Proc. Inst.
Civ. Eng. Energy Marit. Eng. 2010 ,163, 3–17. [CrossRef]
30. Ong, M.C.; Trygsland, E.; Myrhaug, D. Numerical study of seabed boundary layer ﬂow around monopile
and gravity-based wind turbine foundations. J. Oshore Mech. Arct. Eng. 2017 ,139, 042001.
31. Oh, K.Y.; Nam, W.; Ryu, M.S.; Kim, J.Y.; Epureanu, B.I. A review of foundations of o shore wind energy
convertors: Current status and future perspectives. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2018 ,88, 16–36. [CrossRef]
32. Guan, D.W.; Chiew, Y.M.; Melville, B.W.; Zheng, J.H. Current-induced scour at monopile foundations
subjected to lateral vibrations. Coast. Eng. 2019 ,144, 15–21. [CrossRef]
33. Petersen, T.U. Scour around O shore Wind Turbine Foundations. Ph.D. Thesis, Technical University of
Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark, 2014.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 15 of 16
34. Prendergast, L.J.; Reale, C.; Gavin, K. Probabilistic examination of the change in eigen frequencies of
an oshore wind turbine under progressive scour incorporating soil spatial variability. Mar. Struct. 2018 ,57,
87–104. [CrossRef]
35. Rivier, A.; Bennis, A.C.; Pinon, G.; Magar, V .; Gross, M. Parameterization of wind turbine impacts on
hydrodynamics and sediment transport. Ocean Dyn. 2016 ,66, 1285–1299. [CrossRef]
36. Nielsen, A.W.; Liu, X.F.; Sumer, B.M.; Fredsoe, J. Flow and bed shear stresses in scour protections around
a pile in a current. Coast. Eng. 2013 ,72, 20–38. [CrossRef]
37. Riahi-Madvar, H.; Dehghani, M.; Seiﬁ, A.; Salwana, E.; Shamshirband, S.; Mosavi, A.; Chau, K.W. Comparative
analysis of soft computing techniques RBF, MLP , and ANFIS with MLR and MNLR for predicting grade-control
scour hole geometry. Eng. Appl. Comput. Fluid Mech. 2019 ,13, 529–550. [CrossRef]
38. Khan, M.; Tufail, M.; Azamathulla, H.M.; Ahmad, I.; Muhammad, N. Genetic functions-based modelling for
pier scour depth prediction in coarse bed streams. Proc. Inst. Civ. Eng. Water Manag. 2018 ,171, 225–240.
[CrossRef]
39. Ebtehaj, I.; Bonakdari, H.; Moradi, F.; Gharabaghi, B.; Khozani, Z.S. An integrated framework of Extreme
Learning Machines for predicting scour at pile groups in clear water condition. Coast. Eng. 2018 ,135, 1–15.
[CrossRef]
40. Eghbalzadeh, A.; Hayati, M.; Rezaei, A.; Javan, M. Prediction of equilibrium scour depth in uniform
non-cohesive sediments downstream of an apron using computational intelligence. Eur. J. Environ. Civ. Eng.
2018 ,22, 28–41. [CrossRef]
41. Chou, J.S.; Pham, A.D. Nature-inspired metaheuristic optimization in least squares support vector regression
for obtaining bridge scour information. Inf. Sci. 2017 ,399, 64–80. [CrossRef]
42. Ebtehaj, I.; Sattar, A.M.A.; Bonakdari, H.; Zaji, A.H. Prediction of scour depth around bridge piers using
self-adaptive extreme learning machine. J. Hydroinform. 2017 ,19, 207–224. [CrossRef]
43. Lashkar-Ara, B.; Ghotbi, S.M.H.; Najaﬁ, L. Prediction of scour in plunge pools below outlet bucket using
artiﬁcial intelligence. KSCE J. Civ. Eng. 2016 ,20, 2981–2990. [CrossRef]
44. Mesbahi, M.; Talebbeydokhti, N.; Hosseini, S.A.; Afzali, S.H. Gene-expression programming to predict the
local scour depth at downstream of stilling basins. Sci. Iran. 2016 ,23, 102–113. [CrossRef]
45. Choi, S.U.; Choi, B.; Choi, S. Improving predictions made by ANN model using data quality assessment:
An application to local scour around bridge piers. J. Hydroinform. 2015 ,17, 977–989. [CrossRef]
46. Hosseini, R.; Amini, A. Scour depth estimation methods around pile groups. KSCE J. Civ. Eng. 2015 ,19,
2144–2156. [CrossRef]
47. Cheng, M.Y.; Cao, M.T. Hybrid intelligent inference model for enhancing prediction accuracy of scour depth
around bridge piers. Struct. Infrastruct. Eng. 2015 ,11, 1178–1189. [CrossRef]
48. Turan, K.H.; Yanmaz, A.M. Reliability-based optimization of river bridges using artiﬁcial intelligence
techniques. Can. J. Civ. Eng. 2011 ,38, 1103–1111. [CrossRef]
49. Zounemat-Kermani, M.; Teshnehlab, M. Using adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system for hydrological time
series prediction. Appl. Soft Comput. 2008 ,8, 928–936. [CrossRef]
50. Komine, T.; Nakagawa, M. Fundamental analysis for visible-light communication system using LED lights.
IEEE Trans. Consum. Electron. 2004 ,50, 100–107. [CrossRef]
51. Zhang, Y.; Stritlien, K.; Bellingham, J.G.; Baggeroer, A.B. Acoustic doppler velocimeter ﬂow measurement
from an autonomous underwater vehicle with applications to deep ocean convection. J. Atmos. Ocean. Technol.
2001 ,18, 2038–2051. [CrossRef]
52. Nezu, I.; Rodi, M.A.W. Open-channel ﬂow measurements with a laser doppler anemomter. J. Hydraul. Eng.
1986 ,112, 335–355. [CrossRef]
53. Kocsis, L.; Herman, P .; Eke, A. The modiﬁed Beer-Lambert law revisited. Phys. Med. Biol. 2006 ,51, 91–98.
[CrossRef]
54. Zeng, Z.; Fu, S.; Zhang, H.; Dong, Y.; Cheng, J. A Survey of Underwater Wireless Optical Communication.
IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 2017 ,19, 204–238. [CrossRef]
55. Wang, C.; Yu, H.Y.; Zhu, Y.J. A long distance underwater visible light communication system with single
photon avalanche diode. IEEE Photonics J. 2016 ,8, 7906311. [CrossRef]
56. Al-Kinani, A.; Wang, C.X.; Zhou, L.; Zhang, W. Optical wireless communication channel measurements and
models. IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 2018 ,20, 1939–1962. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Water 2019 ,11, 1486 16 of 16
57. Kaushal, H.; Kaddoum, G. Underwater Optical Wireless Communication. IEEE Access 2016 ,4, 1518–1547.
[CrossRef]
58. Chang, C.C.; Wu, C.T.; Lin, Y.B.; Gu, M.H. Water velocimeter and turbidity-meter using visible light
communication modules. In Proceedings of the Sensors, 2013 IEEE, Baltimore, MD, USA, 3–6 November
2013.
59. Huang, N.E.; Shen, Z.; Long, S.R.; Wu, M.C.; Shih, S.H.; Zheng, Q.; Tung, C.C.; Liu, H.H. The empirical
mode decomposition method and the Hilbert spectrum for non-stationary time series analysis. Proc. R. Soc.
Lond. A 1998 ,454, 903–995. [CrossRef]
60. Su, S.C.; Wen, K.L.; Huang, N.E. A New Dynamic Building Health Monitoring Method Based on the
Hilbert-Huang Transform. Terr. Atmos. Ocean. Sci. 2014 ,25, 289–318. [CrossRef]
61. Wu, Z.H.; Huang, N.E. Ensemble Empirical Mode Decomposition: A Noise-Assisted Data Analysis Method.
Adv. Adapt. Data Anal. 2009 ,1, 1–41. [CrossRef]
©2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
(CC BY) license (http: //creativecommons.org /licenses /by/4.0/).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
