energies
Article
Investigation of Isolation Forest for Wind T urbine Pitch System
Condition Monitoring Using SCADA Data
Conor McKinnon1,*,†
, James Carroll1, Alasdair McDonald1, Soﬁa Koukoura1
and Charlie Plumley2
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Citation: McKinnon, C.; Carroll, J.;
McDonald, A.; Koukoura, S.;
Plumley, C. Investigation of Isolation
Forest for Wind Turbine Pitch System
Condition Monitoring Using SCADA
Data. Energies 2021 ,14, 6601. https://
doi.org/10.3390/en14206601
Academic Editors: Xiandong Ma,
Sinisa Durovic and Mohamed
Benbouzid
Received: 17 September 2021
Accepted: 7 October 2021
Published: 13 October 2021
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).1Wind and Marine Energy Systems CDT, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow G1 1RD, UK;
j.carroll@strath.ac.uk (J.C.); alasdair.mcdonald@ed.ac.uk (A.M.); soﬁa.koukoura@strath.ac.uk (S.K.)
2Cubico Sustainable Investments, Harman House, 1 George St, Uxbridge UB8 1QQ, UK;
charlie.plumley@cubicoinvest.com
*Correspondence: conor.mckinnon@strath.ac.uk
† Current address: Wind and Marine Energy Systems CDT, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow G1 1RD, UK.
Abstract: Wind turbine pitch system condition monitoring is an active area of research, and this
paper investigates the use of the Isolation Forest Machine Learning model and Supervisory Control
and Data Acquisition system data for this task. This paper examines two case studies, turbines with
hydraulic or electric pitch systems, and uses an Isolation Forest to predict failure ahead of time. This
novel technique compared several models per turbine, each trained on a different number of months
of data. An anomaly proportion for three different time-series window lengths was compared, to
observe trends and peaks before failure. The two cases were compared, and it was found that this
technique could detect abnormal activity roughly 12 to 18 months before failure for both the hydraulic
and electric pitch systems for all unhealthy turbines, and a trend upwards in anomalies could be
found in the immediate run up to failure. These peaks in anomalous behaviour could indicate a
future failure and this would allow for on-site maintenance to be scheduled. Therefore, this method
could improve scheduling planned maintenance activity for pitch systems, regardless of the pitch
system employed.
Keywords: isolation forest; wind turbine; condition monitoring; pitch system; SCADA data; anomaly
detection
1. Introduction
A signiﬁcant proportion of the UK energy mix is currently made up of wind energy,
both onshore and offshore, and this is only likely to increase. The International Energy
Agency’s (IEA) Sustainable Development Scenario [ 1] predicts that installed offshore
wind generation will increase from 19 GW in 2018, to 127 GW in 2040. The IEA have
also predicted that the UK’s offshore wind capacity will increase from 8.221 GW in 2018,
to 26.9 GW in 2030. With an increase in wind energy generation, the absolute cost and
scale of O&M will likely increase with it. The transition from a wind electricity market
dominated by onshore turbines to one made up with mostly offshore generation will bring
about greater challenges, such as increased downtime and the associated costs.
These costs can be prohibitive to wind farm developers, and the uncertainty around
when downtime can occur adds to this. Operations and maintenance (O&M) is an im-
portant area of wind energy research. This is due to the previously stated O&M costs,
which can be between 20% and 25% of total levelised cost of energy (LCOE) for current
wind turbine projects [ 2], whilst LCOE has been dropping from over $100 per MWh for
onshore since 2009 to roughly $50 per MWh in 2019 [ 3]. The National Renewable Energy
Laboratory (NREL) has stated that O&M for U.S. offshore wind energy can cost around
£62–187/kW/year [ 4]. These costs are due in part to the increased failure rate of turbines
offshore. On average, these turbines have a failure rate of 10 failures per turbine per year,
with 17.5% of these failures being major repairs, and 2.5% being major replacements [5].
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601. https://doi.org/10.3390/en14206601 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 2 of 20
The pitch system has one of the highest failure rates of the turbine, but with one of the
lowest repair times. This cumulative downtime amounts to roughly 24 thousand euros per
MW per year [ 6]. The ability to schedule maintenance activities around weather and vessel
availability would be advantageous and would reduce the offshore wind levelised cost of
energy. Due to lower accessibility offshore, a low repair time with a high failure rate can
lead to extended downtime. The pitch system, which is referenced as part of the hub in
one paper [ 7], had an average downtime of 0.64 days per year. It has also been stated that
the pitch system fails between 0.1 to 0.3 times per year [ 8]. Each repair offshore will require
a sea vessel, with vessel costs making up around 73% of O&M costs offshore [9].
The pitch system is a component in the wind turbine used to regulate power and
loads above rated wind speed. This typically consists of an electric, or hydraulic, drive
system to rotate the blades over a range of motion as shown in Figure 1, less than a full
rotation. As the drive does not continuously rotate, it is difﬁcult to use vibration data for
condition monitoring, so SCADA data has become an area of interest. Unlike drivetrain
components, high frequency vibration condition monitoring data are unsuitable. Therefore,
a technique that can be implemented quickly using SCADA data for wind turbine pitch
systems is essential, due to their frequency of failure and their importance to wind turbine
power production.
In operational wind farms, wind turbine maintenance practices are typically split into
three groups: corrective, scheduled, and condition-based. Corrective maintenance involves
performing maintenance action only when the component fails. Scheduled maintenance
involves scheduling regular inspections and maintenance actions to monitor the turbine
and perform corrective maintenance when necessary. Condition-based maintenance is less
common, but becoming more popular in wind energy. This involves actively monitoring
turbine components and attempting to predict or detect failures. Once failures are predicted,
maintenance action can then be scheduled ahead of time [10].
Anomaly detection is a method of analysis being considered as an efﬁcient and data-
driven approach to aid in fault detection. It has been of recent interest due to its ability
to detect outliers within data. In past papers, it has been considered as a technique to
diagnose or predict faults within components, shown in Section 2. Anomaly detection
involves using the data to learn the normal behaviour of the components and then use this
to determine anomalous behaviour. It can also be used to estimate turbine health based on
this behaviour.
This paper presents a method of condition monitoring using the anomaly detection
model of Isolation Forest [ 11]. An isolation forest is made up of a collection of isolation
tree machine learning models (so called because they are based on “decision trees”). These
machine learning models are used to learn the normal behaviour of the turbine. Isolation
Forest, and anomaly detection in general, is typically an unsupervised training method of
machine learning. This is expanded upon more in Section 3.2. The Isolation Forest was
trained and tested with Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) data from two
different case studies comparing electric and hydraulic pitch systems. Several models were
trained per turbine, each trained on a different number of training months. Testing was
then conducted for each turbine on a window basis, where the proportion of anomalies
within the window was plotted along with previous windows. This systematic testing was
carried out to investigate any trend in anomalies in the run-up to failure. This method is
presented to allow for fewer data to be stored permanently for active use and can lead to
shorter run times. An investigation into the number of training months was carried out,
along with the length of the post-processing window used. This method aims to be a tool
to assist in the decision-making for scheduling maintenance.
Objectives and Novelty
This paper expands on work presented in [ 12], which utilised the Isolation Forest
model on the turbines with hydraulic pitch systems. The anomaly proportion was only
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 3 of 20
aggregated into monthly windows for post-processing and again analysed to examine the
trend. The areas that this paper expands upon are as follows:
• This paper also examines the turbines with electric pitch systems to compare the
model effectiveness for different components;
• Examines different aggregate window lengths, these being daily, weekly, and monthly
anomaly proportions to assess what window length improves;
• Compares healthy and unhealthy turbine performance, to assess if the model can
differentiate.
To the best of the authors’ knowledge, the novelty of this paper is in the use of Isolation
Forest to capture daily, weekly, or monthly anomaly proportions over a long period of
time. This paper also assesses the number of training months required for the model to
be effective—comparing models trained on as little as one month of data. The use of only
one month of training data can then improve training times, and could potentially allow
turbines with shorter-term historical data to still be effectively monitored. A further novelty
is added as the work described above is also the ﬁrst time anomaly detection techniques
have been applied to both hydraulic and electric pitch system condition monitoring for
wind turbines.
The objectives of this paper are to provide a useful condition monitoring technique
to assist in detecting failures for wind turbine pitch systems, whilst using less training
data. To achieve this, the paper tests various Isolation Forest models on a number of wind
turbines with different pitch systems and analyses the performance. The best model set-up
could then be considered in the future for online operation in the industry.
The structure of the paper is as follows. Section 2 reviews previous literature in
condition monitoring for wind turbines. Section 3 outlines the method used in this paper
along with a description of the data in the case studies considered. Finally, Section 4
presents and discusses the results from the method outlined in Section 3.
2. Literature Review
2.1. Pitch System Condition Monitoring
Nielsen et al. [ 13] presented a method of modelling pitch motor torque based on an
aeroelastic simulation program called PHATAS. This was proven to work well in certain
conditions, however, more work was required to detect pitch damage. Kandukuri et al. [ 14]
utilised fast Fourier transform to analyse the frequency of electrical signals from pitch
motors, simulated by FAST using the National Renewable Energy Laboratory’s (NREL)
5 MW reference turbine. A 4-kW induction motor is modelled, and the stator phase A
current is measured. Some of the faults examined in this paper are detectable by this
technique, however, the broken rotor bar failure is not.
Liu Haitao et al. [ 15] used a Nonlinear State Estimate Technology algorithm to predict
variables, and measure the residuals between the actual and predicted targets. It was able
to detect failure ahead of time, but it was unclear as to how long. Yang et al. [ 16] presented a
data-driven approach for wind turbine pitch system condition monitoring. This used three
feature selection techniques: sequential forward selection, gradient boosted decision trees,
and mutual information, to independently select features, and then choose the common
top ﬁve features among them. A support vector regression model was used to predict a
target based on these features and the mean squared error (MSE) was used to measure its
performance, with an exponentially weighted moving average used to detect abnormal
performance from the residuals. It was found to outperform multiple other models in both
prediction in healthy turbines, and anomaly classiﬁcation. It could detect at least 37 h
ahead of SCADA alarms in 8 different fault cases. Zhu et al. [ 17] use an extended Kalman
Filter-based multiple model adaptive estimation system to estimate the states of the system
from a turbine model. This was done to detect the speciﬁc fault types—to differentiate
between an actuator or sensor fault. A bank of extended Kalman Filters are used ﬁrst to
provide individual estimates and residuals. The residuals are used to give a probability,
each combined with the respective estimates. Then, these estimates were blended into one.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 4 of 20
The model performed well on all faults bar the fault associated with pitch actuator 2 caused
by an offset of drive-train torque. It was suggested this could be improved by taking
into account the new torque reference. Wei et al. [ 18] used performance curves to detect
failures when turbines are in power generation states. A Gaussian mixture model was used
for outlier detection, this split the data into faults and performance curves were used to
classify faults. Cho et al. [ 19,20] have produced two papers looking at fault detection for a
ﬂoating wind turbine pitch system using Kalman Filters. This used the input command
to the actuator and the output of the sensor as inputs to the Kalman Filter, the residuals
were compared and if they exceeded a threshold, then a fault was detected. In their ﬁrst
paper [ 19], the authors then isolated the fault being the cause of the sensor or the actuator
through analysing the Nacelle Yaw. In the second paper [ 20], the fault was diagnosed with
an Artiﬁcial Neural Network, to differentiate between 6 different fault cases. A paper from
He et al. [ 21] used electrical signature analysis of the pitch system to detect faults. This
examined four fault indicators (FI): Negative Sequence FI, Positive Sequence FI, AC ripple
peak, and root mean square (RMS). However, there was no indication as to how early
this could detect failure. Another paper from Kandukuri et al. [ 22] presented the use of
extended Park vector modulus (EVPM) to detect failures in the pitch system. The EVPM
measures energies of speciﬁc frequency bands related to known faults, which are then
compared to a threshold. If a fault is detected then the energies, plus other time and
frequency domain features, are fed into a support vector machine to classify these into
faults. This technique could classify faults with an overall accuracy of 98.1%, however
would occasionally struggle with a bearing fault. Yang et al. [23] produced another paper
for pitch system condition monitoring, using a random forest regression model on SCADA
data to detect failure. A relief network was used initially to select 4 features from a set
of 9 and then fed only healthy examples of these to the random forest to be trained. It
predicted a target health indicator feature, and the residuals were used to detect failure.
Three cases were examined, one healthy and two faulty. The technique could detect failure
ahead of time, and, in the angle encoder case, fault could be detected before the SCADA
alarm. In the limit switch failure case, the SCADA alarm did not detect it, but the technique
did before failure. Guo et al. [ 24] presented a method of normal behaviour modelling for
pitch system failure detection. The authors used a multivariate Gaussian process to predict
power output and it was found to have smaller residuals and MAE compared to both
the binned power curve and sixth-order polynomial model. Sequential Probability Ratio
Test was used to detect failures in the residuals produced. This paper could also quickly
ﬁnd the location of the fault by comparing component-related SCADA data before and
after failure, along with other data from turbines close to the one examined. Wei et al. [ 25]
presented a technique using relevance vector machines to produce probability distributions
of pitch motor power based on SCADA data inputs. Anomalous data were determined by
conﬁdence bands based on the healthy normal data. It was found that the average lead
time before failure was 76 h for the relevance vector machine and outperformed support
vector machines and adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) in several metrics.
Sandoval et al. [ 26] presented an approach for low speed bearing diagnosis utilising
entropy indicators (EIs). This technique was presented to allow for vibration analysis
for slower rotating bearings, where vibration analysis has previously been a challenge.
Previously classical indicators, such as kurtosis and root mean square of the time domain
have been used, but this paper proposed indicators based on the concept of entropy. Four
indicators (approximate entropy, dispersion entropy, singular value decomposition entropy,
and spectral entropy of the permutation entropy) were utilised. The paper took a vibration
signal, divided it into windows and calculated indicators for each. The average of one
rotation time by consecutive time series was found then and the set of indicators were
classiﬁed with a random forest. This method improved on using classical indicators by
up to 22%. This was similar to results found for lower rotational speeds. Further study
is required for bearings utilised in real wind turbines, and extending this beyond a test
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 5 of 20
rig. This differs from pitch systems, however, as the pitch system never fully rotates as it
travels between roughly 0 and 90 degrees.
Figure 1. Schematic of Wind Turbine Pitch Systems ( Left) Schematic of an electric pitch system ( Right ) Schematic of a
hydraulic pitch system.
2.2. Anomaly Detection for Wind Turbines
Anomaly detection is a technique of machine learning that can be used for condition
monitoring. Typically, this is carried out in an unsupervised manner, where the “normal”
behaviour of the turbine is unknown and the model is left to learn what is normal behaviour.
In some cases, the model can be trained in a supervised learning environment, typically
these would be regression models where the prediction error is used as a marker for
behaviour. As there are not many examples of anomaly detection for pitch systems, this
section will examine anomaly detection for other wind turbine components. Machine
learning is also utilised outside of wind energy, with a review of these practices being
presented by J. Leukel et al. [ 27], which examined articles that reported the use of Machine
LEarning for predicting failures only using real world data. Of the systems examined, some
were wind turbines. The number of articles considered were screened down from 1024
to 34 from a thorough search through Scopus. Overall, they found that Random Forest,
Support Vector Machines, and Artiﬁcial Neural Networks were the most frequently adopted
algorithms. PCA and correlation analysis was considered the most popular feature selection
technique. The authors stated that the paper was limited by the heterogeneity of the
included studies, as the methods of data collection, pre-processing, training, and evaluation
were dissimilar, so no direct comparison could be made. Another paper has presented
a review of machine learning techniques in another ﬁeld. S Nasiri et al. [ 28] examined
the ability to predict behaviour of 3D-printed parts. Machine learning can be used in all
aspects of additive manufacturing, from design to evaluation. This paper focussed on
the optimisation of process parameters, prediction of porosity of the material, and defect
detection. Process optimisation utilised artiﬁcial neural networks most commonly, while
a variety of methods were used for porosity prediction. Similarly, a wide variety of
techniques were used for defect detection. Some challenges found by the authors relate to
wind energy, such as availability of larger datasets, and feature selection, or feature ranking,
needs further study. Data pre-processing, either through cleaning or image processing, is
also considered a priority for further research, similar for wind energy.
Anomaly detection in wind turbines typically investigates the use of both vibration
and SCADA data. Local outlier factor (LOF) has been used by Xu et al. [ 29] to detect
abnormal segments of vibration samples. Principal components were extracted from the
time domain, and, then, the LOF was used to determine the abnormality of these segments.
The k-nearest neighbours of the LOF were found to be an important parameter here. Test
rigs are commonly used in vibration to generate sample data, one paper from Abouel-
Seoud [ 30] examined time domain features from vibration data from a test rig gearbox.
Faults were introduced artiﬁcially, and one-second measurements were taken six times
over seven hours. The trend of time-domain features was examined and the root mean
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 6 of 20
square (RMS) of the signal was found to trend upwards before failure for all cases. Neural
networks have also been used in anomaly detection, Huitao et al. [ 31] utilised a wavelet
neural network for a test rig gearbox. The network outputs a range of probabilities and
the input data corresponds to a speciﬁc fault out of ﬁve possible faults. It was shown to
perform better than empirical model decomposition (EMD). Simulated turbine models
have also been utilised to test condition monitoring techniques. Yu et al. [ 32] used a
4.8 MW Simulink wind turbine model to test a deep belief network, which is made up
of stacked unsupervised restricted Boltzmann machines. The model was used to detect
sensor, actuator, and system faults, whilst being compared against multiple models and
data-driven techniques. It was found to outperform the other models considered. Long
Short-Term Memory Neural Networks (LSTM) have also been used in one paper from
Liu et al. [ 33]. The paper used an auto-encoder, with LSTM hidden layers, to encode and
decode input sequences from test rig bearings, and the error of the reconstructed data
was used to distinguish healthy and unhealthy components. This was done to detect
white etching cracks in bearings, which are an indicator of failure. One paper has looked
at the combined use of both SCADA and vibration data, which was used with a hybrid
anomaly detection model to detect faults in wind turbine drivetrains. The paper from
Turnbull et al. [ 34] examined two cases, one for a wind turbine gearbox only utilising
SCADA data, and one for the wind turbine generator using both SCADA and Vibration
data. For the gearbox, a neural network was used to model normal behaviour and the
errors were then fed into a one-class support vector machine (OCSVM), and, for the second
case, two neural networks were used, one for SCADA and one for vibration. The OCSVM
then detected anomalies in the error data, and when plotted over time, it could be seen
there was a strong trend upwards before failure.
Some recent examples of fault detection for SCADA data from wind turbines are
presented here. One paper from Yan et al. [ 35] used two back-propagated Neural Networks
(BPNNs) for feature selection and anomaly detection, respectively. The anomaly detection
was carried out based on the root mean squared error (RMSE) between the real and
predicted target for a 1.5 MW wind turbine, which could predict failures 15 days in advance.
Zhao et al. [ 36] presented a technique to detect anomalies and, then based on these found
anomalies, predict remaining useful life. Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications
with Noise (DBSCAN) found the anomaly proportion within the data, and then, a Support
Vector Machine (SVM) classiﬁed whether these outliers were anomalous or not. An auto-
regressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) was then used to predict the remaining
useful life, and this was achieved with only a mean relative error of 0.27. Overall, the
technique could detect faults ahead of time by 44 days. Pei et al. [ 37] used K Nearest
Neighbours (knn) to detect failures in two turbines up to 6 months before failure occurred.
The paper presented an instability factor, which was the sequential difference in distances
for each new k. This metric was compared to a threshold to detect the upcoming failure.
H. Zhao et al. [ 38] used a Deep Auto-Encoder to reconstruct SCADA variables for three
different turbine faults, which were compared to actual values. The errors from this
comparison were measured against a threshold developed with extreme value theory and
could detect failure up to 10 h quicker than a conventional neural network model, and had
a similar computational time. Two separate papers [ 39,40] presented the similar use of
nonlinear auto-regressive neural networks with exogenous inputs (NARX) for anomaly
detection. The NARX models predicted a target feature, and then, the Mahalanobis distance
between the actual and predicted value was calculated. A threshold was then determined
what was anomalous, and if this was crossed continuously then an alarm was generated.
Another paper [ 41] utilised the same technique, however, the wavelet transform was used
to denoise the Mahalanobis distance. For both faults considered, this provided a marked
improvement over the raw Mahalanobis distance—increasing fault detection time by
months. Sun et al. [42] used a Stacked Denoised Auto-Encoder (SDAE) to extract features
and feed this into a Clustering in Quest (CLIQUE) model for anomaly detection. This could
classify the found outlier with unsupervised learning, however, knowledge of these outliers
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 7 of 20
were known in advance for validation. Overall, this technique could classify outliers
with a 98% classiﬁcation accuracy, which was comparable to other models examined.
Zeng et al. [ 43] utilised a relevance vector machine to estimate the probability distribution
of historical gearbox oil temperature to ﬁnd conﬁdence intervals of predicted values. This
model could track normal behaviour and was found to detect failure 8 days ahead for
case study 1, and 7 days ahead for case study 2. Autoencoders are also used frequently
in anomaly detection, one paper from Lutz et al. [ 44] used an autoencoder to reconstruct
data and the Mahalanobis distance to judge the reconstruction errors. A threshold was
set using the false discovery rate by ﬁnding the optimal threshold to minimise this. To
detect when a failure has occurred, the data were split into time windows and the number
of anomalies when operating mode is normal is counted to give a criticality indicator.
Dhiman et al. [ 45] used a two-step process to develop a method of detecting failure. First,
an adaptive threshold was used on training data time sequences to declare anomalous
segments after twin support vector machines were used for binary classiﬁcation of these
segments. The model was found to have better accuracy than other methods compared
and lower false positive and false negative rate. Ensemble methods have been used in
other papers, Moreno et al. [ 46] utilised an ensemble method combining the outputs of
weighted K nearest neighbours (wKNN), Boosted Decision Trees, random undersampling
Boosted Trees (RUSBoosted Trees), support vector machine, random forest, and rotation
forest, and feeding these outputs into another wKNN model. Both just the wKNN and
ensemble wKNN performed best on all metrics for detecting true anomalies.
From the literature review, it can be seen that there have not been many papers
to utilise Isolation Forest, or examine the effects of using a post-processing window to
analyse the anomalies detected. In particular, neither of these have been investigated
for the pitch system, and the varying window length has not been examined for this
technique previously.
3. Methodology
The aims of this paper is to apply the same technique to two different case studies,
each containing multiple turbines and split into different cases depending on what type
of pitch system they use. By examining two different pitch systems, the effectiveness and
robustness of the model can be found. If similar results are found for both the hydraulic
and electric pitch systems, then the model is fairly robust, and can possibly then be applied
to other pitch systems with similar components.
In addition, by comparing the post-processing window length, the anomaly trend
can possibly be seen in ﬁner detail and give more information as to when an anomaly
has occurred.
3.1. Data
Two case studies were examined within this paper. The case studies consisted of
two groups of wind turbines, one with an electric pitch system, and the second with a
hydraulic pitch system. From here on, the turbines with the electric pitch system will be
referred to as case study 1, and the hydraulic pitch system turbines will be referred to as
case study 2. Each turbine had different data recording lengths, ranging from 1 year to just
over 2 years. The data provided was from the wind turbine SCADA systems, which record
data from multiple components and down-samples them to a frequency of 1 recording
every ten minutes. This data is common for wind turbines and is available for both case
studies investigated.
3.1.1. Case Study 1
The SCADA data for case study 1 were taken from 10 multi-megawatt turbines from
the same farm in South America. These turbines utilised an electric pitch system and failed
due to a fault in the pitch bearing. This dataset did contain two healthy turbines, this
allowed for the technique to be validated against normal behaviour. The healthy turbines
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 8 of 20
did not fail during the time of recording, whereas for the unhealthy turbines for both cases,
the data were cut off at turbine failure.
Many features were provided for this dataset, over 200, many of which were cat-
egorical data, all features provided were 10-min averaged SCADA data. Each feature
was the mean of the data, unfortunately no other statistical data were provided. Domain
knowledge was used to select the features used in this case study. The fault causing the
failure of these pitch systems was in the bearing. The industrial partner that provided the
data identiﬁed one feature that helped identify the fault, which was the feedback current
from the pitch system, however, this was not always accessible. To investigate the effect of
this feature on the condition monitoring technique, models were trained with and without
this feature as an input, then performance was assessed. The input features used to train
these models are shown in Table 1. According to the industrial partner who provided the
data, the Pitch System Feedback Current could be used to detect failure up to 18 months
in advance. This was conﬁrmed with on-site inspections by wind turbine technicians that
faults had initiated in the pitch bearings.
Table 1. Table of features for both Case Studies investigated.
Case Study Features
1Average
Wind
SpeedAverage
Power
OutputBlade
Pitch
AnglePitch System
Motor
TemperaturePitch System
Feedback
Current
2Average
Wind
SpeedAverage
Power
OutputAverage
Pitch
AngleAverage Hydraulic
Pitch System
Temperature
3.1.2. Case Study 2
The turbines provided for examination in case study 2 were taken from several wind
farms in Europe. There were 5 turbines, all were multi-megawatt ratings.
The features provided for Case Study 2 are shown in Table 2, however, not all of these
were utilised in the training and testing of the model. The features that were chosen were
selected based on their relative connection to a fault from a paper on hydraulic pitch system
suspension faults [ 47], which is the fault examined here. The features affected by this fault
would be the power, pitch angle, and hydraulic oil temperature, and those features selected
are shown in Table 1. A paper from D. Astolﬁ et al. [ 48] has highlighted the importance
of some currently overlooked features, such as the minimum, maximum, and standard
deviation of the variables, instead of just utilising the averages. This would have been
useful to compare directly between both case studies, however, these features were not
provided by the data-supplier. In future work, if possible, it would be useful to conduct
this comparison using the other features available. In the time period examined for each
turbine in this case study, no failures were recorded until the end of the datasets provided.
The time period examined can be considered “healthy” turbine performance.
3.2. Isolation Forest
The model used in this paper is an Isolation Forest model [ 11]. This model is based on
the decision tree model, an example of this is shown in Figure 2, a classiﬁer type. These
can predict labels for data, and in the example of Isolation Forest, these labels would be
normal or abnormal data. Decision trees are made up of question nodes, that split data
up until all data have an individual “branch” of the tree. These trees can be grouped into
random forests, which are initialised randomly, to aggregate the results and make the
model more robust.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 9 of 20
Table 2. Features provided in the data for Case Study 2.
Feature Avg Max Min STD
Generator Speed x
Hydraulic Pitch
Oil Temperaturex
Nacelle Temperature x
Wind Speed x x x x
Absolute Wind
Directionx
Relative Wind
Directionx x x x
Power x
Pitch Angle x x x x
Nacelle Direction x
Isolation Forests partition the data until each datapoint is isolated, with the average
path length of the branches is then used as the qualiﬁer, with a threshold being learned to
classify the data. If the path length is less than this threshold it is considered an anomaly,
as sparser anomalous data should require fewer partitions to separate it from clustered
normal data. This threshold is dependant on the height of the tree and the average height
of the forest. A score is then given to the data, with values closer to a 1 being an anomaly.
The anomaly score is generated by the following equation (taken from [11]),
s(x,n) =2 E(h(x))
c(n), (1)
where h(x)is the average path length to separate input value x, and c(n)is the average
path length of an unsuccessful search of a Binary Search Tree, given by Equation (2).
c(n) =2H(n 1) (2(n 1)/n), (2)
where H(n 1)is the harmonic number and can be estimated using ln(n 1) +0.5772156649
(Euler’s constant) and nbeing the number of instances in the dataset. Again, both equations
are taken from [ 11]. Equation (2) is used because an Isolation Tree is based on the structure
of a Binary Search Tree, and the estimation of an average path length is similar to the
average path length of an unsuccessful search. The score will tend to 1 when the expected
path length for an Isolation Tree instance tends to 0, which indicates an anomaly.
Isolation Forest has been used for pre-processing data cleaning in one paper [ 49]
before power prediction is then carried out with neural networks. The IF detected outliers
in the power curve were removed, then, a neural network predicted power output for
OREC’s 7MW Levenmouth demonstrator turbine. The cleaning technique was compared
to an elliptic envelope method, and was found to be more effective.
Isolation forest has been used in conjunction with a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM)
for detection of anomalous behaviour by Chen et al. [ 50]. This paper took in SCADA data
and used the GMM to cluster data by operating condition. Speciﬁc component criticality
was found by analysing which particular split in an individual tree gave the anomaly.
One other use of Isolation Forest was presented by the authors of [ 51], where a compar-
ison was made between Isolation Forest, One-Class Support Vector Machine, and Elliptical
Envelope, for a condition monitoring technique for wind turbine SCADA data. That
paper examined a novel technique that compared two months of data, separated by a
year, for several turbines that failed due to a fault in the gearbox. The authors found that
Isolation Forest and OCSVM both performed well.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 10 of 20
Figure 2. Example of Isolation Forest. Left: A simpliﬁed version of an individual isolation tree.
Right : Example of an isolated outlier based on learned boundary.
3.3. Condition Monitoring Technique
The method presented in this paper utilises the Isolation Forest model to collect the
aggregated anomaly counts for different window lengths and then assesses the trend over
time. For each turbine, seven different models were trained. Each model is trained on a
different number of months of training data, ranging from 1 to 6 months, and one model is
trained on 12 months. Each model was then tested on a window-to-window basis, with the
anomaly proportion for each window being compared over time.
The model for each turbine is trained on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 12 months of data. Each
model is then tested on the rest of the data for that turbine on a window-by-window basis,
which was a day, week, or month long. The proportion of anomalies per window length is
then captured and plotted in a trend with the rest of the windows.
For this method, an anomaly was not just a detection made by the Isolation Forest
model, it was only considered an anomaly if there were ﬁve consecutive detections [ 52].
This removes any “normal” anomalies, such as turbulence in the wind or other weather
effects. It is believed that these effects would not last for 5 consecutive 10-min periods.
This technique is illustrated in Figure 3 and also used in [ 51]. The number of anomalies
detected is less relevant than the proportion of anomalies per window. As the number of
data-points in the window changes from window to window, the anomaly number would
be inappropriate to use. The overall trend will also be more interesting, with spikes on
a certain day, week, or month indicating possibly the initiation of a fault or the run up
to failure.
Figure 3. An example of what is considered an anomaly for this paper.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 11 of 20
This technique could then be applied in industry for an online application. By storing
the ﬁrst month of data available, initial monitoring can be conducted with further months
of data being collected live. The anomaly proportion numbers can then be recorded over
the long-term life of the turbine and then assessed to detect faults in the future. A new
model would need to be trained for each turbine but, as these can be saved and re-used,
the model would only need to be trained once. By using this in conjunction with past
knowledge of the turbines, operators can then use this as another source of information
about the turbine to then improve their decision making concerning maintenance and
routine inspections.
4. Results
4.1. Condition Monitoring Technique
Case Study 1 examines the efﬁcacy of the technique, whilst comparing the effects of
window length, turbine health, and use of speciﬁc features. The turbines featured in case
study 1 utilise an electric pitch system, located in South America. The dataset consists
of 10 turbines, 8 of these failed in the time recorded and 2 did not. The healthy turbines
are numbered 1 and 4 here. The ﬁgures presented show the proportion of anomalies per
window length examined, over the period investigated. For example, the proportion of
anomalies within the daily window would be the fraction of the timesteps within that day
that are anomalous, and this is then plotted against time. Case Study 2 was used to validate
this technique on different turbine models in a different continent, and with different pitch
system components.
The results presented in this section show the proportion of the window length that is
anomalous. Figure 4 illustrates the anomaly trend for weekly window lengths. Turbines 1
and 4 here did not fail within the time recorded, and were considered “healthy”.
When comparing the turbines, two features are important to consider: the position
of the consistent peaks, and the magnitude of these peaks. Here, a peak is considered a
consistent peak where all models, trained on different lengths of data, agree that there
is a peak. For example, this is quite prominent for turbine 2, where the three peaks are
consistent in location and magnitude.
For the healthy turbines, it can be seen that there are fewer consistent peaks. This is
more obvious for turbine 4, where there are many examples of peaks for only one model
and no others. This is also evident in turbine 1, but more so for turbine 4. The peaks line up
more for the monthly window lengths. Turbine 1 does have one clear peak in the middle
of the data meaning this could be an indication of some anomaly, it is possible that the
turbine failed after the end of recording as this fault was common for these turbines.
The other turbines, which were considered “unhealthy” appear to have several con-
sistent peaks between 50 and 75 weeks prior to failure. These could be an indication of
fault initiation. It can be seen that the models tend to detect a spike in anomalies both
roughly 12–18 months before failure, and in the short period in the run-up to failure. It is
also unlikely an effect of the seasonality of the data, as these features are apparent in the
test results from models trained on 1 month and 12 months of data. If the seasons were
affecting the data, this would be apparent in the model trained on 12 months of data, with a
peak in the anomalies detected by models trained on fewer months, and no peak from the
model trained on 12 months.
The results are promising, with the peaks being consistent across all models presented.
Again, it should be noted, that the peak in turbine 1 of Figure 4, is similar to those noted
in other unhealthy turbines. This is possibly an indicator of a failure to come, however,
further information of the turbine status is unavailable. This is an example of when this
condition monitoring technique would be of most use. In this scenario, when a peak is
detected in a turbine, a technician could then be sent to do a physical inspection on the
pitch system and assess if a fault has initiated.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 12 of 20
Figure 4. Weekly Anomaly proportions for Case Study 1 with Feedback Current.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 13 of 20
From other expert advice, it is apparent that some wind farm operators will run
turbines even after certain components have failed, sometimes due to a lack of knowledge
about their component’s health. With this advanced warning system, maintenance and
inspections can be scheduled ahead of failure. The ability to schedule maintenance is
of even greater importance for offshore turbines. The restrictions on when maintenance
actions can be undertaken offshore, due to weather windows and vessel availability, means
that knowing in advance of a potential component failure can potentially reduce downtime
and its associated costs.
The ﬁndings of this paper could lead to improvements in wind turbine management,
allowing for scheduling of wind turbine maintenance. This method has been shown to give
notice of turbine failure between 12 and 18 months ahead. The impact of this would be to
allow operators to plan maintenance actions ahead of time, and this is particularly more
important when turbines are placed offshore as sea conditions and vessel availability can
affect when turbines can be accessed for maintenance. So, if turbine condition is known
ahead of time, then these issues can be planned around. Turbine downtime, due to failure
and maintenance, and the associated costs of this downtime would be reduced due to this
ability to take action before the turbine condition becomes severe. Additionally, turbine
replacement component inventory is difﬁcult to plan and varies depending on replacement
component demand; therefore, notice of upcoming failure can improve inventory planning
leading to reduced downtime and in turn lower O&M costs.
4.2. Comparison of Number of Training Months
The number of months used to train each model was varied, with seven models
trained per turbine. The effect of the number of training months is examined in this section.
Figure 5 presents the anomaly proportions for turbines 1, 2, and 6 comparing the models
trained on 1, 3, 6, and 12 months of data.
Figure 5. Comparison of training data length for turbines 1 and 2. Results taken from models trained on 1, 3, 6, and 12
months of data only.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 14 of 20
From Figure 5, the model trained on 1 month of data for turbine 1 does not seem to
detect any anomalies throughout the recorded period, compared to the models trained on
3, 6 and 12 months, which look very similar and seem to have the same scale of anomaly
proportion. This is also visible between 6 months and 12 months for turbine 2, however, the
anomaly proportions from the model trained on 1 month of data does appear to detect the
same two peaks as the models trained on 6 and 12 months. This is again another example
of consistent peaks. While the peaks change magnitude from 1 to 12 training months, they
still indicate where a period of anomalous behaviour occurred. Similarly, for turbine 6,
the general trend of anomalies is similar from 1 to 12 months of training data. This shows
the robustness of the model, as it is capable of detecting anomalies in unhealthy turbines
with only 1 month of training data. For all turbines, there does not appear to be too much
change between models trained on 6 months and models trained on 12 months of data.
The performance of the model while only using 1 month of training data is shown
to be as effective as models trained with 12 months of data in the unhealthy turbines.
This would then allow for faster model training for owners and operators, and would
also allow for lower data storage requirements. This method would also allow for ease
of analysis in the industry as weekly anomaly proportions can be easily predicted and
stored. By examining multiple models on one graph, as shown in Figure 4, peaks can be
more conﬁdently identiﬁed as anomalous behaviour if they occur for multiple models at
once, which would improve the overall robustness of the technique. Potentially, when
applied in an online capacity, only 2–4 models would be needed instead of the 7 used here.
In isolation, it appears using either 3 or 6 months is the most effective, and using 12 months
may not be required.
4.3. Comparison of Window Length
By varying the length of the post-processing window, the resolution of the data can be
changed. This is done to ﬁrst identify a peak in anomalies, then to increase the resolution to
identify the day this occurred. By knowing the date of the peak, the cause of the anomalous
behaviour can be found (i.e., if it is due to planned or known changes in behaviour).
Figure 6 presents the changing window length for turbines 1 and 2, for models trained on
6 months of data only. The focus is on one model per turbine to highlight the differences
caused by changing the window length.
Window length affects the magnitude of the peaks in anomaly proportion, this is
shown as the scale of the axes reduces with increasing window length, most likely due to
large single day, or week, peaks being averaged with surrounding lower peaks. An example
of this can be seen for the ﬁrst two peaks of turbine 2 in Figure 6, which become progres-
sively smaller with increasing window length. Single peaks can appear for increasing
window length due to aggregation of smaller peaks in smaller window lengths, and this
can make anomalies more prominent in the case of continuous anomalous behaviour. This
is shown in turbine 1, with the continual anomalous behaviour after the major spike around
day 500. This progressively becomes one secondary peak in the monthly window data.
It can be seen that regardless of what window length is used, the results are rather
similar in terms of peak location and number. The main difference is magnitude. In terms
of future use of the technique, a monthly window could be used initially to identify areas
of anomalous behaviour, then, a daily window length could be used to pinpoint the exact
date for analysis. Using a weekly aggregate in isolation appears to be most appropriate,
as this ﬁlters out much of the noise from the daily aggregate. A weekly aggregate also
allows for greater resolution than the monthly aggregate, and when implemented online, it
would allow the user to assess when a fault initiation occurred; however, a daily window
length is needed to identify the exact day for fault context.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 15 of 20
Figure 6. Comparison of post-processing window length for turbines 1 and 2. Results taken from models trained on 6
months of data only.
4.4. Effect of Feedback Current
Figure 4 shows the weekly window length for the turbines in Case Study 1 trained on
models that utilised the pitch system feedback current feature. It can be seen, when
compared to Figure 7, turbines 1, 3, 6, and 9 are all affected by the inclusion of the
additional feature.
The pitch system feedback current was considered as a feature on the advice of the
industrial partner that supplied the data. This feature had been used to monitor the
turbines previously and had shown promise for predicting failure, however has since been
made unavailable to the industrial partner. This section therefore looks at the effect of
removing this feature from the set of input features, and examining the results from the
models. By removing the feedback current from the input set, whether the model still
detects anomalies in the same locations as in Figure 4 can be examined. If the performance
of the model is still similar when the feature is removed, then this will help to alleviate any
problems caused by being denied access to that feature in the future.
This feature had been found to give notice of failure up to 18 months beforehand,
and, subsequently, a technician would be sent to inspect the turbine. It was, therefore,
important to show that the model still performed as well when trained without this
feature. The results shown in Figure 7 are those from the models trained without the
feedback current. It can be seen for the unhealthy turbines that a peak is visible roughly
12–18 months before failure at the end of the period examined. This peak is consistent with
the ﬁndings of the industrial partner, and therefore shows that the model can be trained
with other features and still performs as well as when the feedback current is included. This
peak before failure could indicate an upcoming fault in the component, as the industrial
partner’s technicians described signs of fault initiation at that time.
One particular result that is unexpected is that for turbine 1 the model trained on
2 months of data appears to have inverse results compared with all other models. It is
unclear why this has occurred, potentially it is due to a glitch in the data, as it is unlikely
due to some excess of anomalies in the ﬁrst two months of the data, as can be seen in
Figure 7.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 16 of 20
Figure 7. Weekly Anomaly proportions for Case Study 1 without Feedback Current.
4.5. Validation against Case Study 2
Figure 8 shows the results for Case Study 2 with a weekly window. This example
presents the models not trained on the hydraulic oil temperature feature. Further results
for this case study were presented in [ 12]. The results presented here are used to validate
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 17 of 20
this technique against other turbines with different pitch system components. As this is a
hydraulic pitch system, some of the features and behaviours are different compared to an
electric pitch system, so are a perfect case study to examine the robustness of the models.
When compared with the results presented for Case Study 1, it can be seen that there
are similarities. These are the peak roughly 10–12 months before failure, with a second
rise immediately before failure. This second rise is not as visible in turbine 2; however,
there does appear to be a consistent peak right before failure. This is despite the turbines
in case study 2 using a hydraulic pitch system and the models being trained on different
features. As these features are present in both case studies, featuring data recorded at
different times and locations, it is unlikely that this is purely coincidental. This indicates
that this condition monitoring technique is detecting actual anomalous behaviour, rather
than some random noise in the data. This is encouraging as it means that this technique
could potentially be applied to other pitch systems and failure modes.
Figure 8. Weekly Anomaly proportions for Case Study 2 without Hydraulic Oil Temperature.
5. Conclusions
This paper has presented a condition monitoring technique using Isolation Forest to
assist in maintenance decision-making. This technique compared multiple models per
turbine, each trained on a different number of training months. This was then tested on
the remaining time and split into windows of time. In summary, the condition monitoring
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 18 of 20
technique examined here is effective in detecting component failure ahead of time. For both
the electric and hydraulic pitch systems considered, the technique performed similarly,
detecting a peak roughly 12–18 months before failure, and again immediately before failure.
This was observed over all the unhealthy turbines examined, these occurrences were
asynchronous and did not occur at the same time for each turbine, therefore, this is unlikely
to be a coincidence. Various models and aggregate windows were considered. Seven
different models were trained per turbine, each corresponding to a different number of
training months in the dataset, and three different windows were used to analyse the
results of each model.
It was found that a combination of models was useful, as this could show where
the models agreed and therefore was likely seeing some anomalous behaviour. It also
showed that for the healthy turbines examined that the models would disagree. Whilst
analysing the results from the models, a weekly window was useful for removing much of
the noise, whilst still allowing for enough resolution to spot when anomalies occur. Overall,
this technique has been shown to help improve the scheduling of planned maintenance
activities for wind turbines. It was suggested that combining models was useful, however,
fewer models are required than presented in this paper. It was found that the model could
distinguish between healthy and unhealthy turbines.
In the future, this technique could then be examined again, however, possibly with the
use of other features and data. Some features, such as minimum, maximum, and standard
deviation of the blade pitch angle, would be of interest to compare for both systems
examined, as suggested in [ 48]. SCADA alarms, or fault information, for the turbines
examined could provide contextual data to the results of the model in the future. The
authors of [ 27] state that a future work should consider the effect of feature selection on
machine learning techniques, as this has not adequately been investigated in the past.
Author Contributions: The author contributions to this article were as follows: conceptualization by
C.M. and J.C.; methodology, formal analysis, investigation, and writing—original draft preparation
by C.M.; resources by J.C. and C.P .; writing—review and editing by J.C. and A.M.; and supervision
by J.C., A.M. and S.K. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by EPSRC grant number EP/L016680/1.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Offshore Wind Outlook 2019: World Energy Outlook Special Report. Technical Report. 2019. Available online: https://www.iea.
org/reports/offshore-wind-outlook-2019 (accesed on 7 October 2021).
2. Costa, Á.M.; Orosa, J.A.; Vergara, D.; Fernández-Arias, P . New tendencies in wind energy operation and maintenance. Appl. Sci.
2021 ,11, 1386. [CrossRef]
3. Ren, Z.; Verma, A.S.; Li, Y.; Teuwen, J.J.; Jiang, Z. Offshore wind turbine operations and maintenance: A state-of-the-art review.
Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2021 ,144, 110886. [CrossRef]
4. Stehly, T.; Heimiller, D.; Scott, G. 2016 Cost of Wind Energy Review ; Technical Report December; National Renewable Energy Lab.:
Golden, CO, USA, 2016.
5. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; McMillan, D. Failure rate, repair time and unscheduled O&M cost analysis of offshore wind turbines.
Wind Energy 2016 ,19, 1107–1119. [CrossRef]
6. Rinaldi, G.; Thies, P .R.; Johanning, L. Current Status and Future Trends in the Operation and Maintenance of Offshore Wind
Turbines: A Review. Energies 2021 ,14, 2484. [CrossRef]
7. Faulstich, S.; Hahn, B.; Tavner, P . Wind Turbine Downtime and its Importance for Offshore Deployment. Wind Energy 2011 ,
14, 327–337. [CrossRef]
8. Pinar Pérez, J.M.; García Márquez, F.P .; Tobias, A.; Papaelias, M. Wind turbine reliability analysis. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.
2013 ,23, 463–472. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 19 of 20
9. Dalgic, Y.; Lazakis, I.; Turan, O. Vessel charter rate estimation for offshore wind O&M activities. Int. Marit. Assoc. Mediterr.
IMAM 2013 , 899–908. [CrossRef]
10. Nielsen, J.J.; Sørensen, J.D. On risk-based operation and maintenance of offshore wind turbine components. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf.
2011 ,96, 218–229. [CrossRef]
11. Liu, F.T.; Ting, K.M. Isolation Forest. In Proceedings of the Eighth IEE International Confrence on Data Mining, Pisa, Italy, 15–19
December 2008. [CrossRef]
12. Mckinnon, C.; Carroll, J.; Mcdonald, A.; Koukoura, S.; Plumley, C. Investigation of anomaly detection technique for wind turbine
pitch systems. In Proceedings of the IET RPG 2020, Dublin, Ireland, 1–2 March 2021.
13. Nielsen, J.S.; van de Pieterman, R.P .; Sorensen, J.D. Analysis of pitch system data for condition monitoring. Wind Energy 2014 ,
17, 435–449. [CrossRef]
14. Kandukuri, S.T.; Huynh, V .K.; Karimi, H.R.; Robbersmyr, K.G. Fault Diagnostics for Electrically Operated Pitch Systems in
Offshore Wind Turbines. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2016 ,753. [CrossRef]
15. Liu, H.; Hao, X.; Kai, H. Fault identiﬁcation of new energy based on online monitoring. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE
Advanced Information Management, Communicates, Electronic and Automation Control Conference, IMCEC 2016, Xi’an, China,
3–5 October 2016; pp. 1275–1278. [CrossRef]
16. Yang, C.; Qian, Z.; Pei, Y.; Wei, L. A data-driven approach for condition monitoring of wind turbine pitch systems. Energies 2018 ,
11, 2142. [CrossRef]
17. Zhu, J.; Ma, K.; Hajizadeh, A.; Soltani, M.; Chen, Z. Fault detection and isolation for wind turbine electric pitch system.
In Proceedings of the International Conference on Power Electronics and Drive Systems, Honolulu, HI, USA, 12–15 December
2018; pp. 618–623. [CrossRef]
18. Wei, L.; Qian, Z.; Yang, C.; Pei, Y. Wind turbine pitch system condition monitoring based on performance curves in multiple
states. In Proceedings of the 2018 9th International Renewable Energy Congress, IREC 2018, Hammamet, Tunisia, 20–22 March
2018; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
19. Cho, S.; Gao, Z.; Moan, T. Model-based fault detection, fault isolation and fault-tolerant control of a blade pitch system in ﬂoating
wind turbines. Renew. Energy 2018 ,120, 306–321. [CrossRef]
20. Cho, S.; Choi, M.; Gao, Z.; Moan, T. Fault detection and diagnosis of a blade pitch system in a ﬂoating wind turbine based on
Kalman ﬁlters and artiﬁcial neural networks. Renew. Energy 2021 ,169, 1–13. [CrossRef]
21. He, L.; Hao, L.; Pan, D.; Qiao, W. Detection of single-axis pitch bearing defect in a wind turbine using electrical signature analysis.
In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International Electric Machines and Drives Conference, IEMDC 2019, San Diego, CA, USA, 12–15
May 2019; pp. 31–36. [CrossRef]
22. Kandukuri, S.T.; Senanyaka, J.S.L.; Huynh, V .K.; Robbersmyr, K.G. A Two-Stage Fault Detection and Classiﬁcation Scheme
for Electrical Pitch Drives in Offshore Wind Farms Using Support Vector Machine. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2019 ,55, 5109–5118.
[CrossRef]
23. Yang, C.; Qian, Z.; Pei, Y. Condition Monitoring for Wind Turbine Pitch System Using Multi-parameter Health Indicator.
In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Power System Technology, POWERCON 2018, Guangzhou, China, 6–8
November 2018; pp. 4820–4825. [CrossRef]
24. Guo, J.; Wu, J.; Zhang, S.; Long, J.; Chen, W.; Cabrera, D.; Li, C. Generative transfer learning for intelligent fault diagnosis of the
wind turbine gearbox. Sensors 2020 ,20, 1361. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
25. Wei, L.; Qian, Z.; Zareipour, H. Fault Detection Based on Optimized. IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy 2020 ,11, 2326–2336. [CrossRef]
26. Sandoval, D.; Leturiondo, U.; Vidal, Y.; Pozo, F. Entropy indicators: An approach for low-speed bearing diagnosis. Sensors 2021 ,
21, 849. [CrossRef]
27. Leukel, J.; González, J.; Riekert, M. Adoption of machine learning technology for failure prediction in industrial maintenance:
A systematic review. J. Manuf. Syst. 2021 ,61, 87–96. [CrossRef]
28. Nasiri, S.; Khosravani, M.R. Machine learning in predicting mechanical behavior of additively manufactured parts. J. Mater. Res.
Technol. 2021 ,14, 1137–1153. [CrossRef]
29. Xu, X.; Lei, Y.; Zhou, X. A LOF-based method for abnormal segment detection in machinery condition monitoring. In Proceedings
of the 2018 Prognostics and System Health Management Conference (PHM-Chongqing), Chongqing, China, 26–28 October 2018;
pp. 125–128. [CrossRef]
30. Abouel-seoud, S.A. Fault detection enhancement in wind turbine planetary gearbox via stationary vibration waveform data. J.
Low Freq. Noise Vib. Act. Control 2018 ,37, 477–494. [CrossRef]
31. Huitao, C.; Shuangxi, J.; Xianhui, W.; Zhiyang, W. Fault diagnosis of wind turbine gearbox based on wavelet neural network. J.
Low Freq. Noise Vib. Act. Control 2018 ,37, 977–986. [CrossRef]
32. Yu, D.; Chen, Z.M.; Xiahou, K.S.; Li, M.S.; Ji, T.Y.; Wu, Q.H. A radically data-driven method for fault detection and diagnosis in
wind turbines. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2018 ,99, 577–584. [CrossRef]
33. Liu, X.; Azzam, B.; Harzendorf, F.; Kolb, J.; Schelenz, R.; Hameyer, K.; Jacobs, G. Early stage white etching crack identiﬁcation
using artiﬁcial neural networks. Forsch. Ing. 2021 ,85, 153–163. [CrossRef]
34. Turnbull, A.; Carroll, J.; McDonald, A. Combining SCADA and vibration data into a single anomaly detection model to predict
wind turbine component failure. Wind Energy 2021 ,24, 197–211. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 6601 20 of 20
35. Yan, Y.; Li, J.; Gao, D.W. Condition Parameter Modeling for Anomaly Detection in Wind Turbines. Energies 2014 ,7, 3104–3120.
[CrossRef]
36. Zhao, Y.; Li, D.; Dong, A.; Lin, J.; Kang, D.; Shang, L. Fault prognosis of wind turbine generator using SCADA data. In Proceedings
of the NAPS 2016—48th North American Power Symposium, Denver, CO, USA, 18–20 September 2016; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
37. Pei, Y.; Qian, Z.; Tao, S.; Yu, H. Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring Using SCADA Data and Data Mining Method. In Proceedings
of the 2018 International Conference on Power System Technology (POWERCON), Guangzhou, China, 6–8 November 2018;
pp. 3760–3764.
38. Zhao, H.; Liu, H.; Hu, W.; Yan, X. Anomaly detection and fault analysis of wind turbine components based on deep learning
network. Renew. Energy 2018 ,127, 825–834. [CrossRef]
39. Bangalore, P .; Letzgus, S.; Karlsson, D.; Patriksson, M. An artiﬁcial neural network-based condition monitoring method for wind
turbines, with application to the monitoring of the gearbox. Wind Energy 2017 ,20, 1421–1438. [CrossRef]
40. Cui, Y.; Bangalore, P .; Tjernberg, L.B. An anomaly detection approach based on machine learning and scada data for condition
monitoring of wind turbines. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Probabilistic Methods Applied to Power
Systems, Boise, ID, USA, 24–28 June 2018; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
41. Cui, Y.; Bangalore, P .; Tjernberg, L.B. An Anomaly Detection Approach Using Wavelet Transform and Artiﬁcial Neural Networks
for Condition Monitoring of Wind Turbines’ Gearboxes. In Proceedings of the 2018 Power Systems Computation Conference
(PSCC), Power Systems Computation Conference, Dublin, Ireland, 11–15 June 2018; pp. 1–7.
42. Sun, Z.; Sun, H. Stacked Denoising Autoencoder With Density-Grid Based Clustering Method for Detecting Outlier of Wind
Turbine Components. IEEE Access 2019 ,7, 13078–13091. [CrossRef]
43. Zeng, X.J.; Yang, M.; Bo, Y.F. Gearbox oil temperature anomaly detection for wind turbine based on sparse Bayesian probability
estimation. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2020 ,123. [CrossRef]
44. Lutz, M.A.; Vogt, S.; Berkhout, V .; Faulstich, S.; Dienst, S.; Steinmetz, U.; Gück, C.; Ortega, A. Evaluation of anomaly detection of
an autoencoder based on maintenace information and SCADA-data. Energies 2020 ,13, 1063. [CrossRef]
45. Dhiman, H.S.; Deb, D.; Muyeen, S.M.; Kamwa, I. Wind Turbine Gearbox Anomaly Detection based on Adaptive Threshold and
Twin Support Vector Machines. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2021 ,8969 , 1–8. [CrossRef]
46. Moreno, S.R.; Coelho, L.D.S.; Ayala, H.V .; Mariani, V .C. Wind turbines anomaly detection based on power curves and ensemble
learning. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2020 ,14, 4086–4093. [CrossRef]
47. Skrimpas, G.A.; Marhadi, K.S.; Gomez, R.; Sweeney, C.W.; Jensen, B.B.; Mijatovic, N.; Holboell, J. Detection of pitch failures in
wind turbines using environmental noise recognition techniques. In Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the Prognostics
and Health Management Society, PHM, Coronado, CA, USA, 18–24 October 2015; pp. 280–287.
48. Astolﬁ, D.; Castellani, F.; Lombardi, A.; Terzi, L. Multivariate SCADA Data Analysis Methods for Real-World Wind Turbine
Power Curve Monitoring. Energies 2021 ,14, 1105. [CrossRef]
49. Lin, Z.; Liu, X.; Collu, M. Electrical Power and Energy Systems Wind power prediction based on high-frequency SCADA data
along with isolation forest and deep learning neural networks. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2020 ,118, 105835. [CrossRef]
50. Chen, H.; Ma, H.; Chu, X.; Xue, D. Anomaly detection and critical attributes identiﬁcation for products with multiple operating
conditions based on isolation forest. Adv. Eng. Inform. 2020 ,46, 101139. [CrossRef]
51. McKinnon, C.; Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; Koukoura, S.; Inﬁeld, D.; Soraghan, C. Comparison of new anomaly detection technique
for wind turbine condition monitoring using gearbox SCADA data. Energies 2020 ,13, 5152. [CrossRef]
52. Gil, A.; Sanz-Bobi, M.A.; Rodríguez-López, M.A. Behavior anomaly indicators based on reference patterns – Application to the
gearbox and electrical generator of a wind turbine. Energies 2018 ,11, 87. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
