energies
Review
Fault Detection and Diagnosis Methods for Fluid Power Pitch
System Components—A Review
Magnus F. Asmussen1,2,*
, Jesper Liniger3
and Henrik C. Pedersen2
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Citation: Asmussen, M.F.; Liniger, J.;
Pedersen, H.C. Fault Detection and
Diagnosis Methods for Fluid Power
Pitch System Components—A
Review. Energies 2021 ,14, 1305.
https://doi.org/
Academic Editor: Andrzej Bielecki
Received: 14 January 2021
Accepted: 22 February 2021
Published: 27 February 2021
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).1Hydratech Industries, 9000 Silkeborg, Denmark
2Department of Energy Technology, Aalborg University, 9220 Aalborg East, Denmark; hcp@et.aau.dk
3Department of Energy Technology, Aalborg University, 6700 Esbjerg, Denmark; jel@et.aau.dk
*Correspondence: mas@hydratech-industries.com
Abstract: Wind turbines have become a signiﬁcant part of the global power production and are still
increasing in capacity. Pitch systems are an important part of modern wind turbines where they
are used to apply aerodynamic braking for power regulation and emergency shutdowns. Studies
have shown that the pitch system is responsible for up to 20% of the total down time of a wind
turbine. Reducing the down time is an important factor for decreasing the total cost of energy of
wind energy in order to make wind energy more competitive. Due to this, attention has come to
condition monitoring and fault detection of such systems as an attempt to increase the reliability
and availability, hereby the reducing the turbine downtime. Some methods for fault detection and
condition monitoring of ﬂuid power systems do exists, though not many are used in today’s pitch
systems. This paper gives an overview of fault detection and condition monitoring methods of ﬂuid
power systems similar to ﬂuid power pitch systems in wind turbines and discuss their applicability
in relation to pitch systems. The purpose is to give an overview of which methods that exist and to
ﬁnd areas where new methods need to be developed or existing need to be modiﬁed. The paper goes
through the most important components of a pitch system and discuss the existing methods related
to each type of component. Furthermore, it is considered if existing methods can be used for ﬂuid
power pitch systems for wind turbine.
Keywords: ﬂuid power; wind turbines; condition monitoring; fault detection
1. Introduction
Wind turbines have become a signiﬁcant part of the global power production and
are still increasing in capacity [ 1]. Especially the offshore wind industry is growing and
have increased 87% in installed capacity in 2017 compared to 2016 [ 1]. The offshore wind
industry is expected to cover 23% of EU’s total electricity demand in 2030 and is a important
factor of EU’s long term commitment of reducing the greenhouse gas emissions [ 2]. A key
factor in achieving these long term goals is to reduce the Levelized Cost Of Energy (LCOE)
for wind turbines. A way of reducing the LCOE is to reduce the Operational Expenditure
(OPEX) which contribute up to 30% of the LCOE. For offshore wind turbines, the OPEX
is in general higher compared to onshore wind turbines due to longer lead time, more
expensive transportation, and longer downtime of the turbine. A way of decreasing the
OPEX is to introduce condition monitoring systems that may increase the reliability.
The LEANWIND project [ 2] identiﬁed condition monitoring systems as one of the
subjects to be addressed in order to achieve a reduction of the total cost of energy. The re-
duction comes from an increased reliability and availability as a result of fewer unpredicted
failures and better opportunities for planned maintenance. Hameed [ 3] and Garcia [ 4] have
earlier made reviews covering some of the existing methods within condition monitoring
of wind turbines. Most of the methods aims for monitoring of the structural health, the
bearings and the electrical systems. For the pitch system, not much has been presented
except for oil analysis and simple check on whether the pitch reference is tracked or not.
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305. https://doi.org/10.3390/en14051305 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 2 of 15
However, the pitch system is a very important subsystem of the wind turbine as it is used
for emergency shut downs by applying aerodynamic braking to stop the wind turbine.
The pitch system can be either an electrical pitch system or a ﬂuid power pitch system
where the distribution between them are roughly even. This paper focuses on ﬂuid power
pitch systems.
A survey by Carroll et al. [ 5] analysing a population of 350 offshore wind turbines
show that the pitch system is responsible for approximately 13% of the failures of the
turbine, making it the sub-system responsible for the largest part of the total number of
failures. Another survey by Ribrant and Bertling [ 6] supports this by stating that the pitch
system is responsible for a large number of failures.
Condition monitoring systems does already exist in wind turbines and reviews do
exists, e.g., Hammed et al. [ 3], Garcia Marquez et al. [ 4] and Jin et al. [ 7]. As seen in the
former reviews, a lot of systems have been implemented, though most of the systems
focus on the structural health, the bearings and the electrical systems. The works on ﬂuid
power pitch systems are not as comprehensive as for the other areas. However, as stated
byCarroll et al. [5], it is an important system as it is part of the safety system of the wind
turbine and is subject to a high amount of failures.
Liniger et al. [ 8] presented a review of existing fault detection and diagnosis methods
for ﬂuid power systems. Here it was found that methods do exist for faults like cylinder
leakage, internal valve leakage, ﬂuid contamination and sensor faults. However, further
work is needed to adapt them to pitch systems. The review is very brief and does not go
into detail with each component.
The focus of this paper is to give an overview of fault detection and condition moni-
toring techniques for ﬂuid power systems, and discuss their applicability related to pitch
systems. The overview will include a categorisation of the used methods and the signals
used for all the important components of a hydraulic pitch system. The methods are
furthermore compared qualitatively and their applicability for wind turbines are discussed.
Compared to previous reviews this paper gives a more comprehensive overview of the
existing methods and makes a comparison between the methods in relation to ﬂuid power
pitch systems. The purpose is to ﬁnd research gaps where methods needs to be devel-
oped and which methods that already exists and can be modiﬁed and applied. As ﬂuid
power pitch systems are similar to conventional ﬂuid power drives the review may also be
relevant for these systems and their components.
2. Pitch System Description
Fluid power pitch systems are used in wind turbines to pitch the blades for aerody-
namic braking and thereby regulate the power or to shut down the turbine. In Figure 1 ,
a simpliﬁed example of a ﬂuid power pitch system is shown to give an overview of the
components and functionality of the system. It may be noted that all hydraulic pitch
systems are not identical, which is why some systems vary from the one presented.
The system consists of several valves which are used to control the ﬂow in the system,
a hydraulic cylinder as actuator, a supply circuit and an emergency accumulator used
for emergency shut down of the turbine. Furthermore, the system consists of different
sensors measuring the system states during operation, for both control and monitoring
purposes. In Figure 1, a notation of the measured system state is given to each sensor, which
will be used throughout the paper. The pitch system is for the most part similar to other
conventional ﬂuid power drive systems. The operation of the pitch system can be divided
into several modes which dictates the operation of the system and which components are
in use. The operation modes are therefore brieﬂy described below.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 3 of 15
SI
SI
MV1-3
V4
V5-6
C
A
P
S1-4
S5
S62-2 way solenoid  seat valve
4-3 way proportional  spool  valve
Check valve
Asymmetric  cylinder
Accumulator
Pump
Pressure sensor
Position sensor
Valve feedbackPI
PI
PI
PIPitch bearing
V1V4V2 V5
A
S3 - paccuS1 - ppS5 - xc
SupplyV6C
PPI
PIS2 - pr
SU
SUS6 - xv
PI
PIS4 - ps
V3
Figure 1. Simpliﬁed example of ﬂuid power pitch system.
Start-up
The supply pressure is controlled between two pressure levels by activating and
deactivating V3. When V3 is activated pressure is build up and when V3 is deactivated the
pump is idling. First the emergency accumulator is charged through the check valve, V6.
The blade is then pitched into the wind by retracting the cylinder to the desired position
with the proportional valve, V4. Once the desired position is reached the start-up procedure
is ﬁnished and pitch regulation is enabled.
Pitch regulation
In pitch regulation the proportional valve is used to follow a pitch reference given
from the turbine controller. When extracting the cylinder, ﬂow is going from P to A in the
proportional valve and ﬂow from the rod side chamber of the cylinder is going through the
regenerative check valve back to the supply. When retracting the cylinder, ﬂow is going
from P to B and A to T of the proportional valve.
Emergency shut-down
When a emergency shut-down is enabled all valves are de-energised and go to their
normal position, i.e., the proportional valve is closed and the two emergency valves are
opened. Flow is then going from the accumulator through valve V1 and into the piston
side chamber of the cylinder while ﬂow from the rod side chamber is going to the tank,
thereby extending the cylinder, i.e., pitching the blades out of the wind.
It should be noted that the system illustrated in Figure 1 is extensively simpliﬁed and
that a complete pitch system consists of several more components, primarily for safety. This
includes additional sensors, redundant components and extra valves for service functions.
All main components are though present and gives an understanding of which types of
components that are present in a typical pitch system. In the following sections, FDD
methods for each component of the system will be reviewed and discussed starting with
the cylinder.
3. Hydraulic Cylinder
The fault scenarios related to the hydraulic cylinder addressed in this paper are internal
cylinder leakage and external cylinder leakage. Other type of faults include structural
damage, slack, etc. but typically to, e.g., mishandling why they are not considered here.
Internal leakage is deﬁned as leakage across the piston seal and external leakage is deﬁned
as unwanted ﬂow out of the hydraulic circuit. Leakage may be caused by worn seals or by
failure in the connection between the cylinder and the hose. Internal leakage is typically
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 4 of 15
only considered a fault if the levels are so high that the system is not capable of operating.
Even small levels of external leakage is critical why no leakage is typically allowed at all.
Internal and External Leakage
In the following an overview is given of the main results related to leakage. An overview
table is found is found in the end of the section.
Choux et al. [ 9] compares an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) approach and a State
Augmented Extended Kalman Filter (SAEKF) approach for detecting internal and external
leakage from one cylinder chamber based on pressure and cylinder displacement mea-
surements. Both ﬁlters can detect internal leakage and external leakage, though only the
SAEKF is estimating the leakage level. The SAEKF estimates the internal leakage level
to approximately 0.25 L/min for the test set-up, though the actual leakage level is not
given, why the accuracy of the estimate is not evaluated. While promising, the cylinder
reference is given as a sinusoidal signal which is not similar to the movement for a pitch
system. The non consistent movement in a pitch system may make it hard to apply the EKF
approach as the residuals may be dependent on the operating conditions. Furthermore, the
external load is applied by a spring-damper system which is not emulating the stochastic
behaviour of wind loads.
A similar EKF based method is addressed by An et al. [ 10] where internal leakage
of approximately 0.5 L/min and external leakage of approximately 0.5 and 0.8 L/min are
detected. A test setup using a symmetrical cylinder with no load, where the leakage is
emulated by needle valves is used for validating experimentally. In An and Sepehri [ 11],
the detection scheme is extended to handle the leakage detection subject to unknown
friction forces and unknown loads on the actuator. In addition a spring is attached to
the cylinder at the test setup emulating the unknown load. The results of the extended
detection scheme shows that the algorithm is capable of handling the unknown factors
with similar results as in An et al. [ 10]. However, the cylinder reference given to the system
is a sinusoidal signal which is not necessarily similar to the stochastic movements in a pitch
system. This may inﬂuence the results as the faults are indicated by average residuals that
may be affected by the operation conditions.
Sepasi and Sassani [ 12] use an Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF) for detecting faults of a
hydraulic system including internal and external leakage. Faults are identiﬁed by looking
at the moving average of errors of the cylinder displacement, the two camber pressures and
a ratio between the two cylinder chamber pressures. The system is subjected to three levels
of both internal and external leakage which are controlled manually by a needle valve.
Experiments show that it is possible to detect all three levels for both internal and external
leakage, though the leakage levels are not known. The system is subjected to external load
which causes the residuals to increase. As the method relies on evaluating residuals, the
method may be hard to implement for a pitch system with varying operation cycles.
Aloize [ 13] investigates and compares three different signal based methods for detec-
tion of internal leakage; autocorrelation of the pressure signal, cross-correlation between
pressure signals, cross-correlation between control input and cylinder displacement and
ratio of metric length of the pressure signals. All methods successfully detect leakage,
though the ratio of metric length methods show better results being able to detect internal
leakage down to 0.047 L/min with a change in mean RMS of over 80%. The other meth-
ods show slightly less change in mean RMS value but are all able of detecting the same
leakage level. The experiments are performed on a valve controlled cylinder attached to a
spring load, with a needle valve between the two cylinder chambers to emulate internal
leakage. As the method is comparing mean RMS values the results may be affected by the
operation conditions.
May et al. [ 14] describes a method based on cross-correlation between the two chamber
pressures to detect internal leakage. The method is tested experimentally on a position
trajectory with a series of steps where internal leakage is emulated with a needle valve
between the two cylinder chambers. Internal leakage of down to 0.069L/min was found to
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 5 of 15
be detectable in the experiments. It is unsure how the method would perform in a pitch
system with highly varying operation cycles and external loads as this may inﬂuence the
results of the method.
Goharrizi and Sepehri [ 15] uses wavelet analysis to detect internal leakage in actuators.
Internal leakage down to 0.2 L/min is detected experimentally on the test setup used in
May et al. [ 14]. Goharrizi et al. [ 16] further uses wavelet analysis to detect external leakage
and isolates it from internal leakage. External leakage is detected down to 0.3 L/min
experimentally where needle valves are used to emulate external and internal leakage.
Goharrizi and Sepehri [ 17] also describes a method using Hilbert–Huang Transform (HHT)
and compare it to a method based on wavelet analysis. Internal leakage of 0.124 L/min
when moving the actuator back and forth and 0.23 L/min when following a position
trajectory is detected. HHT is found more sensitive to internal leakage, but is also more
complex and computational heavy compared to the wavelet approach. The experiments
are performed on the same setup used in Goharrizi and Sepehri [ 15]. Common for these
methods is that they are evaluating the leakage level based on obtained coefﬁcients from
signal analysis methods, which has to be compared to a fault-free scenario. A disadvantages
of this is that tests has to conducted on a system to ﬁnd a baseline before the methods
can be applied. Further, it is unsure how much system changes over time or external
disturbances such as highly varying external forces will inﬂuence this baseline.
Crowther et al. [ 18] use a neural network to detect actuator faults including internal
leakage which is trained on both simulations and experimental data with different levels
of emulated leakage. Both networks was capable of detecting leakage faults, though the
network trained on experimental data could be trained with fewer iterations. The leakage
level tested for both networks were approximately 0.3 L/min. The used test set-up consists
of a valve actuated cylinder drive attached to a mass loaded by a passive cylinder.
Asmussen et al. [ 19] use a SAEKF approach to detect internal and external leakage.
The method is tested in simulations in [ 19] and later experimentially in [ 20] on a test set-up
similar to a pitch system. During the tests the operating conditions are similar to an actual
pitch system as the reference and external load are found from actual turbine scenarios.
The results show that internal leakage can be directly estimated down to 0.10 L/min with
an estimation error of maximum 0.04 L/min. For external leakage 0.34 L/min can be
estimated, though the maximum error is up to 0.43 L/min. A downside of the method is
that the valve model used in the SAEKF should be very accurate and uncertainties would
lead to worse performance. However, the method could be implemented in an pitch system.
It should be noted that the authors are the same as for this paper.
In general internal and external leakage is addressed in the past by several methods,
both model based, such as Kalman ﬁlters, and signal based, such as wavelet analysis.
The signal based methods may be hard to implement in a pitch system as the methods
typically rely on a predeﬁned trajectory of the actuator which is not present in pitch
systems due to the stochastic behaviour of the wind. Furthermore, the signal based
methods typically evaluate the leakage levels by comparing to baseline results obtained by
a fault free scenario. However, the baseline may change with the operation cycle and the
changing external forces why it may be difﬁcult to use the methods for pitch systems in
wind turbines. The model based methods may to some extent be implemented as some
of the described methods take external forces and highly varying operation cycles into
account. However, some of the model based methods rely on comparison with a fault
free scenario why these may be exposed to some of the same problems as the signal based
methods. The leakage levels detected by the different methods varies and it is difﬁcult to
compare them directly as the inﬂuence of a certain leakage level depends on the cylinder
size and the total ﬂow rate of the system. When taking the cylinder size of pitch systems,
internal leakage of down to 0.2 L/min seems detectable. This may be sufﬁcient for most
hydraulic systems as internal leakage typically ﬁrst becomes a problem at much higher
rates. For external leakage none of the presented methods can detect low enough levels
to be sufﬁcient in pitch systems, though they could still be used to detect large abrupt
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 6 of 15
leakages. For very small levels of external leakage other methods should be developed
perhaps including other sensor technologies. All the described methods are summarised in
Table 1.
Table 1. Covered fault detection methods for actuator leakage failures. The notations of the used signals can be found in
Figure 1.
Fault Type Method Used Signals Validation Fault Level
Choux et al. [9] int. and ext. Model Based xc,pr,pp Exp. unknown
An and Sepehri [10] int. and ext. EKF xc,pr,pp Exp. 0.5 [L/min]
An and Sepehri [11] int. and ext. EKF xc,pr,pp Exp. 0.3 [L/min]
Sepasi and Sassani [12] int. and ext. UKF xc,pr,pp Exp. unknown
Aloize [13] int. Correlation pr,pp Exp. 0.047 [L/min]
May et al. [14] int. Cross-correlation pr,pp Exp. 0.069
Goharrizi and Sepehri [15] int. Wavelet xc,pr,pp Exp. 0.2 [L/min]
Goharrizi et al. [16] int. and ext. Wavelet pr,pp Exp. 0.2 [L/min]
Goharrizi and Sepehri [17] int. H-H transform pr,pp Exp. 0.124 [L/min]
Crowter et al. [18] int. Neural Network xc,pr,pp Sim. unknown
Asmussen et al. [19,20] int. EKF xc,pr,pp Exp. 0.34–0.46 [L/min]
4. Accumulators
The accumulator is used for both storing hydraulic energy for emergency shut-down
and for decreasing the maximum ﬂow demand for the pump. The primary failure mode
of accumulators is gas leakage, which is also the failure mode considered in this paper.
Gas leakage results in lowered pre-charge pressure of the accumulator and thus lowered
storing capacity.
Liniger et al. [ 21] describes a method for detecting the changes in the pre-charge pres-
sure of an accumulator. The method is based on wavelet analysis and uses a measurement
of the ﬂuid pressure close to the accumulator. The RMS value of the detail coefﬁcient,
corresponding to a frequency range of 0.39–0.78 Hz, is used to quantify changes in the
pre-charge pressure. Through simulations it was shown that pre-charge pressure of 180 bar,
100 bar and 50 bar could be isolated from each other in an ambient temperature range of 22
to 60C. The method was further validated experimentally showing that levels of 100 bar,
75 bar and 50 bar can be isolated from each other. The method is dependent on excitation
of the accumulator why some accumulators in some wind turbines cannot be monitored
continuously as they are only used during an emergency shut-down.
In [22], Liniger et al. describes a method for detecting gas leakage by an EKF based
algorithm. The method utilise measurements of the ﬂuid pressure and the ambient tem-
perature for estimating the pre-charge pressure of the accumulator. Experiments showed
that pre-charge pressure could be estimated when using measurements of the input ﬂow
of the accumulator whereas the pre-charge pressure where seen to drift, when instead
using a estimated input ﬂow. Flow measurements are in general not present in hydraulic
pitch systems why the method may not be applied for continuously monitoring of the
pre-charge pressure. However, the pre-charge pressure were estimated during charging of
the accumulator with a estimation error below 2 bar. This may be sufﬁcient to be used in
a pitch system as the gas leakage is assumed to be slowly developing over time.
Helwig et al. [ 23] detects gas leakage, among other things, by multivariate statistics
based on multiple signals to extract features related to faults. The method is tested experi-
mentally subject to both ﬁxed and random working cycles and can distinguish between 90,
100, 110 and 115 bar pre-charge pressure for ﬁxed working cycles. However, the method
showed decreased performance detecting the change in pre-charge pressure for random
working cycles which is what pitch systems are exposed to. Due to this it may be difﬁcult
to apply this method without addressing this.
Sorensen et al. [ 24] describes a method using a bank of EKFs to detect changes in the
pre-charge pressure of a piston accumulator. The residuals of the four EKFs with different
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 7 of 15
assumed pre-charge pressures are analysed using a multi-model adaptive estimation
scheme to evaluate the most likely pre-charge level. Through experiments the method is
shown capable of isolating 140 bar, 110 bar, 80 bar and 50 bar from each other. However,
the method still relies on ﬂow measurement which is not present in common pitch systems.
Nielsen et al. [ 25] is a patent application that describes a method where the accumula-
tor capacity is evaluated by draining the accumulator through an oriﬁce to the tank. During
the decharge period the ﬂuid pressure is monitored and decreased accumulator function
can be detected by comparing the decharge time to a predeﬁned value. A drawback of the
method is that the wind turbine has to be shut down in order to perform the evaluation of
the accumulator function. In a patent application by Minami et al. [ 26] a similar method
is described, though it is not clear how the accumulator is decharged. Furthermore, this
method can only be done when the turbine is shut down.
The described methods are summarised in Table 2.
Table 2. Covered fault detection methods for accumulator gas leakage. The notations of the used
signals can be found in Figure 1.
Method
DomainUsed
Signals Validation
Liniger et al. [21] wavelet Ps Exp.
Liniger et al. [22] EKF Ps,˙xp,Ta Exp.
Helwig et al. [23] Neural Network multiple Exp.
Nielsen et al. [25] Signal based Ps unknown
Minami et al. [26] Signal based Ps unknown
Sorensen et al. [24] EKF Ps,Qload,Qpump Exp.
In general not many papers has been published within the topic of gas leakage
detection. Though most of the methods described in this section are developed with pitch
systems for wind turbines in mind. However, most of the applicable methods only work
well for periods where the accumulator is either charged or discharged, and not during
continuous operation. As gas leakage of accumulators typically happens slowly over time
it should be sufﬁcient to only check for this failure once in a while why the methods have
potential of detecting such failures. Whether the detectable level of gas leakage is sufﬁcient
will depend on the safety factor in the design of the speciﬁc system, i.e., how much the
system is over-dimensioned. In most systems there will be more than one accumulator,
i.e., a bank of accumulators. None of the described methods consider this why it may
affect the results of the methods. Furthermore, the method cannot identify which of the
accumulators are leaking.
5. Valves
In pitch systems there are several different valves including proportional spool valves
and on/off valves which are considered in this paper. Common for the on/off valves and
the proportional valve is that they are solenoid actuated. Typically the on/off valves are
poppet valves. As the on/off valves and the proportional valve are both solenoid actuated
they are considered in the same section. Both signal and model based methods exists
for detecting failures in valves. Some of the method exploits that the movement of the
valve can be detected in the current response and uses this to detect failures related to the
movement of the valve. The current response is then typically compared to a healthy valve
to check for failures.
Solenoid actuated valves typically work by applying voltage over a solenoid to create a
electromagnetic force that is capable of moving either a spool or a puppet in order to control
the ﬂow through the valve. Jameson et al. [ 27] gives an overview of the failure modes and
root causes of solenoid actuated valves by a Failure Mode Mechanisms and Effect Analysis
(FMMEA). Here worn or degraded parts, contamination by foreign materials, short circuit
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 8 of 15
in the coil, and open circuits in the coil where identiﬁed as the most important ones with
short circuits being the most dominant.
Ramos Filho and Negri [ 28] describes a model based approach to fault detection of
a hydraulic proportional valve. A physical model is used as a reference such that the
measured current can be compared to a theoretical value. The method is tested on a healthy
valve, a valve with a contaminated spool, and a valve with a degraded spool. It is shown
that the faulty valves may be detected. The method is using pressure measurements on
the valve ports which may not be present in pitch systems. Though available pressure
measurements may be used even if they are not attached directly to the valve ports.
Furthermore, the method relies on a known trajectory which may not be possible in a pitch
system as the operation cycles are changing continuously due to the wind.
Jouppila et al. [ 29] describes a model based method for detection increased Coulomb
friction of a PWM driven solenoid operated proportional valve. Increased friction was
identiﬁed by changes in the current gradient compared to normal operation. The results
are only simulated and variations in operation conditions such as temperature are not
addressed, why the robustness of the method is unclear.
Moseler and Straky [ 30] uses a model based approach for fault detection of a solenoid
valve for hydraulic systems in vehicles. The method is based on estimating the stroke
from voltage and current measurements and then use the stroke to detect failures such as
blocked spool, increased friction and wrong neutral position by comparing it to a healthy
operating valve. The solenoid valve is doing a voltage step which may not be possible to
conduct while the pitch system is operating. However, it may be possible to implement
such a test sequence when the system is shut down.
Raduenz et al. [ 31] describes an on-line fault detection method for proportional valves
using measurements of the supply current and the spool position. Five different valves
with different sizes and from different manufacturers are tested. The method is based on
limit checking to see if the current and position is within predeﬁned limits found from
tests on healthy valves. The method may detect failures associated with change in the
required force such as friction and ﬂow forces. Fault scenarios with spool locking and a
broken spring are tested experimentally and are detected successfully. The method may be
used in a pitch system dependent on the available measurements of the proportional valve.
Typically only position feedback is available, though valves with both position and current
measurements do exists.
Adrees [ 32] uses current signature analysis to detect faults of a solenoid valve. Faults
addressed are various quantities of increased load and a damaged spring. It is not clear
how effects of operating conditions, such as changing temperatures, inﬂuence the results.
Due to this it may be not be possible to directly implement the methods in a real system.
Tsai and Tseng [ 33] describes a diagnostic algorithm based on a neural network to
detect deterioration of solenoid valves used in a diesel engine. The neural network was
trained on four brand new and two severely worn solenoids and was used to determine
either normal or abnormal operation. The diagnostic algorithm was tested on another
18 solenoids, ten reusable and eight broken, where the algorithm were able to classify
all reusable solenoids in the normal region and all except one of the broken solenoids in
the abnormal region. Each solenoid was tested three times resulting in values close to
each other.
Liniger et al. [ 34] develops a model based scheme for detecting early signs of coil fail-
ures in solenoid valves. It is seen that typically, a minimum of ﬁve insulation faults occurs
before a coil failure. An insulation fault is identiﬁed by a resistance change estimated by an
EKF algorithm and isolated from thermal effects by use of a thermal model. The method
uses measured coil current and voltage and ambient and ﬂuid temperature. Resistance
changes of down to 0.26 ohm for a continuous operated coil and 0.36 ohm for a intermittent
operated coil was found as minimum detectable. A detection probability of 97% and 99%
is found for, respectively, continuous and intermittent operated valves.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 9 of 15
A challenge with the many of the above described methods are that operating condi-
tions such as the temperature of the valve may inﬂuence the results. Particles or changes
in the oil properties may also inﬂuence the results. It is thus estimated that the presented
methods may be used in controlled and constant environments, but may work with de-
creased performance in pitch systems for wind turbines. Coil short circuit failure seems
to be detectable for both continuous operated valves and intermittent operated valves,
though the presented methods use current measurements which are normally not available,
why such needs to implemented. The presented methods are summarised in Table 3.
Table 3. Covered fault detection methods for valve failures. iv,Vvandxvrepresent the valve current, voltage and position, respectively.
FailureMethod
DomainUsed
Signals Validation
Ramos Filho and Negri [28] faulty spool model based iv Exp.
Jouppila et al., [29] inc. friction model based ivandVv Sim.
Moseler and Straky [30] inc. friction and blocked model based iv Exp.
Raduenz et al. [31] locking and broken spring model based ivandxv Exp.
Adrees [32] broken spring signal based iv Exp.
Tsai and Tseng [33] deterioration neural network iv Exp.
Liniger et al. [34] model based iv Exp.
6. Sensor Faults
The sensors used in a common hydraulic pitch system typically include pressure
transmitters and cylinder displacement sensors. The failures related to sensors can be a
bias, drifting, drop out, signal peaks or increased noise.
Helwig et al. [ 35] presents a signal based condition monitoring system where sen-
sor faults such as constant offset, drifting, noise and signal peaks may be detected and
compensated. The method extract features of the signal and using linear discriminant
analysis for classiﬁcation. The detection method is tested on experimental data from a
pressure transmitter in a hydraulic setup. Sensor faults are emulated by signal manipula-
tion. Offset of approximately ﬁve bars are detected without overlap with no offset. One
peak may be detected without overlap. Drifting of 0.25% per hour and noise of 10 dB are
detectable. The method is applied to constant operation cycles, and it is unknown whether
the method is applicable for unknown and switching operation cycles as for pitch systems
in wind turbines.
Garimella and Yao [ 36] uses an adaptive robust observer to detect velocity sensor
faults in a hydraulic actuator. The fault emulated is a drift of 10 7ms 1in the sensor
signal and the fault is detected after approximately 40 s. A threshold is compared to the
estimation error to indicate when a fault is present. The method is validated by simulation
of a hydraulic drive system consisting of an asymmetric cylinder attached to a mass.
Mosallaei and Salahshoor [ 37] investigates a data fusion technique for sensor fault
detection and diagnosis. The method is based on an Adaptive Modiﬁed Extended Kalman
Filter (AMEKF) and is tested on simulations of a continuous stirred tank reactor and detects
bias and drift sensor faults.
In general, there is not much literature available on sensor faults of hydraulic systems.
More work is thus needed if such failures should be detected. The methods described are
summarised in Table 4.
Table 4. Covered fault detection methods for sensor failures.
Method
DomainUsed
Signals Validation
Helwig et al. [35] Statistical Pressure Manipulated Data
Garimella and Yao [36] Robust Observer Ps,˙xp,Ta Simulation
Mosallaei and Salahshoor [37] Kalman Filter - Simulation
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 10 of 15
7. Fluid Faults
Fluid faults in hydraulic systems includes air contamination of the oil, oil additives
breakdown and particle contamination. Fluid faults may change the properties of the ﬂuid
and be a source to more failures. A change in ﬂuid properties may also be an indication
of faults in the system such as worn out seals resulting in air and particle contamination
of the oil. Pitch systems have high demands for the oil cleanness compared to many
other hydraulic systems due to the life time and service requirements of pitch systems. In
hydraulic systems preventive actions such as ﬁlters is used to prevent ﬂuid contamination.
Furthermore, commercial available monitoring systems for ﬂuid contamination including
particle counters and off-line monitoring do exist. In this section, only on-line monitoring
methods that deal with ﬂuid contamination in a hydraulic system is described.
Garimella and Yao [ 36] uses an adaptive robust observer to detect oil contamination
in a hydraulic actuator among other failures. This is done by estimating the effective bulk
modulus of the ﬂuid by the observer, as an indicator for air contamination, and comparing
it to a found threshold indicating a fault. The method is only tested in simulations why
it is unknown how the method performs in a real system. The uncertainties in the model
combined with external disturbances may inﬂuence the results.
Salguerio et al. [ 38] describes a method for on-line oil analysis measuring multiple
oil properties such as temperature, water content, chemical and oil contamination. The oil
contamination is measured by particle counters, both ferrous and non-ferrous. Faults are
detected from changes in the oil properties. Detection of ferrite particle and water content
in the oil are experimentally validated in a hydraulic setup with a gearbox lubricated with
hydraulic oil. The method relies on particle counters which in general are not present in
pitch systems due to their high price.
The described methods are either relying on expensive sensors or have only been
tested in simulations. More work is thus needed if on-line monitoring of the oil could
be used without the use of particle counters. The methods described are summarised
in Table 5.
Table 5. Covered fault detection methods for ﬂuid failures. The notations of the used signals can be found in Figure 1.
Failure TypeMethod
DomainUsed
Signals Validation
Garimella and Yao [36] air cont. Adaptive Observer Ps,˙xp,Ta Sim.
Salguerio et al. [38] multiple cont. Direct measure Particle counters Exp.
8. Supply
A hydraulic pitch system is typically supplied by a hydraulic power unit containing
several components, such as pumps, valves, accumulators, etc. As valves and accumulators
have already been treated in previous sections only the pump is considered as a component
itself. In addition detection of lowered supply pressure have been dealt with by a number
of papers why these are considered as well.
8.1. Pump
Gao et al. [ 39] investigate a wavelet analysis approach of the outlet pressure of a
hydraulic pump for fault detection. The analysis is done for a fault-free pump, a pump
with loose piston shoes and a pump with worn swash plate. Experimental test showed
that the wavelet coefﬁcients where higher for the malfunctioning pumps compared to the
fault free pump, which then can be used to identify a defect pump. Gao et al. [ 40] further
investigates a wavelet analysis approach of the outlet pressure of a hydraulic pump for fault
detection and compares it to a FFT approach. The methods are tested on the same pumps
as in [ 39]. The FFT approach compares the summation of the power spectra 10–40 Hz for
each pump while the wavelet approach applies a three level wavelet transform giving eight
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 11 of 15
coefﬁcients to compare. Experimental tests showed that the wavelet approach where better
suited for diagnosis of the pump.
Ramden et al. [ 41] uses vibration measurements to do condition monitoring of a
hydraulic pump. The fault is introduced on the bearing plate where four different plates
where tested. One from a working pump and three from damaged pumps. One of the
damaged plates caused decreased efﬁciency of 20% while the remaining two are only
beginning to wear out with no decrease in efﬁciency. The damaged plate was detected
by RMS of the time signal of the vibrations. The frequency spectrum further detects the
worn plates. Furthermore, it was shown that the placement of the accelerometer was not
important as long as it was on the housing of the main pump.
Johnston and Todd [ 42] uses pressure and ﬂow ripple measurements to identify worn
bearings using RMS and the ﬁrst harmonic amplitude of the pressure and ﬂow ripple.
The method is tested on “good”, “worn” and “bad” bearings and for different pump speeds.
It is shown that it is possible to distinguish the bearing condition from each other, though
with some overlap between “worn” and “bad”.
In addition to the available literature commercially available condition monitoring
solutions do exist. Typically they use measurements, such as vibration and temperature,
directly on the pump or motor driving the pump. As condition monitoring systems
already do exist it could also be possible to implement such solution in wind turbines.
The mentioned methods also indicates that it is possible to detect pump failures in pitch
systems. In Table 6, the described methods for pump faults are summarised.
Table 6. Covered fault detection methods for pump faults. The notations of the used signals can be
found in Figure 1.
MethodUsed
Signals Validation
Gao et al. [39] Wavelet ps Exp.
Gao et al. [40] Wavelet and FFT ps Exp.
Ramden et al. [41] Frequency analysis Vibrations Exp.
Johnston and Todd [42] Direct measure and frequency psand pump ﬂow Exp.
8.2. Supply Pressure Faults
An and Sepehri [ 43] uses an EKF based method to detect changes in the supply
pressure. This is done by looking at a moving average of the residuals which can detect
changes in the supply pressure. The method is tested experimentally which shows that the
method respond to changes of down to 10% of the normal operating pressure.
Crowther et al. [ 18] describes a neural network detecting lowered supply pressure
among other faults. The network is feed with measurements of the cylinder pressures
and displacement and the current of the proportional valve. The approach is to train
the network on simulated data and validate the network on experimental data. From
the results it seems possible to detect faults though the exact size of the fault seems hard
to determine.
Chen et al. [ 44] develops an active FTC scheme, redesigning the controller on-line, for
a hydraulic pitch system of a wind turbine. The controller here compensates for a drop
in the supply pressure. The quantity of the pressure drop is not stated, but it is seen from
simulated results that the fault may be detected and that the FTC scheme may reduce
unwanted oscillations due to drop in supply pressure.
Khan et al. [ 45] uses a non-linear observer based fault detection scheme. The cumu-
lative sum of residuals of the cylinder velocity is used to determine faults by predeﬁned
thresholds. Drop in supply pressure from 57 to 50 bar and 77 to 57 bar is detected after
approximately 1–2 s.
Shi and Patton [ 46] describes a method based on a robust adaptive observer. The method
detects faults by estimating the response of the pitch system and then relates that to certain
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 12 of 15
faults. The method is validated by simulations where lowered supply pressure of 50% is
shown to result in a signiﬁcant decrease in the natural frequency of the pitch system.
Tan and Sepehri [ 47] describes a model based fault detection method. The method is
based on estimating parameters of a Volterra model and use that to detect faults by com-
parison with thresholds. Decreased supply pressure is detected in the range of 12–40% and
increased supply pressure is detected in the range of 20–40%, based on experimentally tests.
In general some work has been done on detecting decreased supply pressure for
hydraulic systems. For ﬂuid power pitch systems the supply pressure is though not
constant as described in Section 2. Due to this it may be difﬁcult to use the described
methods as the supply pressure will decrease naturally in a pitch system. However, the
methods may be applied for systems with a more constant supply pressure. In Table 7, the
described methods for supply pressure faults are summarised.
Table 7. Covered fault detection methods for supply faults. The notations of the used signals can be
found in Figure 1.
MethodUsed
Signals Validation
An and Sepehri [43] EKF Ps,xp Exp.
Crowther et al. [18] Neural network Ps,˙xpand valve current Exp.
Chen et al. [44] FTC scheme Pitch angle Sim.
Khan et al. [45] Nonlinear observer ˙xp Exp.
Shi and Patton [46] adaptive observer Generator speed and pitch angle Sim.
Tan and Sepehri [47] model-based Ps,xp Exp.
9. Discussion
Most of the methods described in this paper are not aimed directly for pitch systems,
but for hydraulic systems in general. The main difference is the operating conditions
where a pitch system is subjected to both highly varying trajectories and external forces.
Many other hydraulic systems work under more constant working conditions. Many of
the methods described detect faults by either residuals generated from a physical model
or by comparing signal attributes to a healthy system. When the operating conditions are
varying the residuals or the signal attributes of a healthy system may change which may
inﬂuence the performance of such methods. It may be that the methods are still capable of
detecting failure, however, it is unknown as it has not been addressed in most papers. In
few papers the system considered is a pitch system, which indicates that the methods can
be adapted to pitch systems. Furthermore, some of the methods rely on sensors that are
typically not present in pitch systems why the use of these method do require additional
sensors which may increase the total cost of the system.
Methods related to internal cylinder leakage can be used in pitch system and accept-
able leakage levels can be detected. However the methods that have shown these results
do require an accurate valve model which may be found from experiments. Furthermore,
methods for detecting gas leakage in accumulators seems applicable, though they can only
be used in certain operation cycles such as start-up. Furthermore, many usable methods
for detecting valve failures exits, however, they rely on current measurements which is
normally not present in pitch systems. It should be noted that many of the methods may
be applicable for other hydraulic systems where the operating condition are more constant.
For some critical faults like external leakage, the methods available are only capable
of detecting high leakage levels, and it is questionable whether the described methods may
ever be capable of this. To deal with this method it may be needed to look in other directions
such as new sensor technologies, new methods etc. In general applicable methods for fault
detection and condition monitoring do exist. However, more work is needed if all potential
faults in a pitch system should be covered. Furthermore, additional sensors may need to
be implemented, though resulting in a more expensive system.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 13 of 15
In addition to the methods mentioned in this paper it is worth noting that other fault
detection methods used in other industries or addressed in other research communities do
exits. As an example Ding [ 48] mentions methods from data science which may be used for
wind turbine systems. As the amount of gathered data increases over time such data driven
methods may be more widely used. The industry may already be utilising such methods
as they already have large amounts of data that could beneﬁt the use of such methods.
10. Conclusions
This paper has presented a state of the art review of fault detection and diagnosis
methods for ﬂuid power pitch systems. The review is based on published methods in-
cluding scientiﬁc publications and patents. In general, a lot of methods exists on different
components of the system which may be applicable for speciﬁc systems. Many of the
methods may be suited for systems with ﬁxed operation cycles while it may be harder to
achieve sufﬁcient results with systems similar to the ﬂuid power pitch system. This is due
to the stochastic position trajectory and stochastic external load applied to the system due
to the behaviour of the wind. Very few methods are directly aimed towards such systems
why more work needs to be done before the methods may cover all potential failures of the
ﬂuid power pitch system.
Author Contributions: This paper is a collaboration between authors. M.F.A. is the main contributor
and has done the literature search with many inputs from both J.L. and H.C.P . M.F.A. wrote the paper
while J.L. and H.C.P . contributed with in-depth reviews throughout the process. All authors have
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research is funded by Innovationsfonden DK, grant number [8053-00039].
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. GWEC. Global Wind Report—Annual Market Update 2017 ; Technical Report; GWEC: Brussels, Belgium, 2018.
2. Devoy McAuliffe, F.; Murphy, J.; Lynch, K.; Desmond, C.; Arthur Norbeck, J.; Magne Nonås, L.; Attari, Y.; Doherty, P .; Dalsgaard
Sorensen, J.; Giebhardt, J.; et al. Driving Cost Reduction in Offshore Wind—The LEANWIND Project Final Publication ; Technical
Report; 2018. Available online: https://windeurope.org/wp-content/uploads/ﬁles/about-wind/reports/LEANWIND-Driving-
cost-reductions-in-offshore.pdf (accessed on 26 February 2021).
3. Hameed, Z.; Hong, Y.S.; Cho, Y.M.; Ahn, S.H.; Song, C.K. Condition monitoring and fault detection of wind turbines and related
algorithms: A review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2009 ,13, 1–39. [CrossRef]
4. García Márquez, F.P .; Tobias, A.M.; Pinar Pérez, J.M.; Papaelias, M. Condition monitoring of wind turbines: Techniques and
methods. Renew. Energy 2012 ,46, 169–178. [CrossRef]
5. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; McMillan, D. Failure rate, repair time and unscheduled O&M cost analysis of offshore wind turbines.
arXiv 2015 , arXiv:1006.4405v1.
6. Ribrant, J.; Bertling, L.M. Survey of Failures in Wind Power Systems With Focus on Swedish Wind Power Plants during 1997–2005.
IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2007 ,22, 167–173. [CrossRef]
7. Jin, X.; Chen, Y.; Wang, L.; Han, H.; Chen, P . Failure prediction, monitoring and diagnosis methods for slewing bearings of
large-scale wind turbine: A review. Meas. J. Int. Meas. Confed. 2021 ,172, 108855. [CrossRef]
8. Liniger, J.; Pedersen, H.C.; Soltani, M. Reliable Fluid Power Pitch Systems: A Review of State of the Art for Design and Reliability
Evaluation of Fluid Power Systems. In Proceedings of the ASME/BATH 2015 Symposium on Fluid Power and Motion Control,
Chicago, IL, USA, 12–14 October 2015; [CrossRef]
9. Choux, M.; Tyapin, I.; Hovland, G. Leakage-detection in blade pitch control systems for wind turbines. In Proceedings of the
2012 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium, Reno, NV , USA, 23–26 January 2012; p. 6. [CrossRef]
10. An, L.; Sepehri, N. Hydraulic actuator leakage fault detection using extended kalman ﬁlter. Int. J. Fluid Power 2005 ,6, 41–51.
[CrossRef]
11. An, L.; Sepehri, N. Leakage fault detection in hydraulic actuators subject to unknown external loading. Int. J. Fluid Power 2008 ,
9, 15–25. [CrossRef]
12. Sepasi, M.; Sassani, F. On-line fault diagnosis of hydraulic systems using Unscented Kalman Filter. Int. J. Control. Autom. Syst.
2010 ,8, 149–156. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 14 of 15
13. Alozie, C. Internal Leakage Diagnosis in Valve Controlled Actuation Systems and Electrohydrostatic Actuation Systems. Ph.D.
Thesis, The University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada 2014.
14. May, M.; Sepehri, N.; Kinsner, W. Hydraulic Actuator Internal Leakage Detection Using Cross-Correlation Time Series Analysis.
In Proceedings of the ASME/BATH 2014 Symposium on Fluid Power and Motion Control, Bath, UK, 10–12 September 2014.
[CrossRef]
15. Goharrizi, A.Y.; Sepehri, N. A wavelet-based approach to internal seal damage diagnosis in hydraulic actuators. IEEE Trans. Ind.
Electron. 2010 ,57, 1755–1763. [CrossRef]
16. Goharrizi, A.Y.; Sepehri, N.; Wu, Y. A wavelet-based approach for online external leakage diagnosis and isolation from internal
leakage in hydraulic actuators. Int. J. Fluid Power 2011 ,12, 37–47. [CrossRef]
17. Goharrizi, A.Y.; Sepehri, N. Internal leakage detection in hydraulic actuators using empirical mode decomposition and hilbert
spectrum. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2012 ,61, 368–378. [CrossRef]
18. Crowther, W.J.; Edge, K.A.; Burrows, C.R.; Atkinson, R.M.; Woollons, D.J. Fault diagnosis of a hydraulic actuator circuit using
neural network—An output vector space classiﬁcation approach. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. Part J. Syst. Control. Eng. 1998 ,212, 57–68.
[CrossRef]
19. Asmussen, M.F.; Pedersen, H.C.; Larsen, A.; Lilleengen, L.; Farsakoglou, T. System Using A State Augmented EKF-Approach. In
Proceedings of the ASME/BATH 2019 Symposium on Fluid Power, Longboat Key, FL, USA, 7–9 October 2019.
20. Asmussen, M.F.; Pedersen, H.C.; Liniger, J. Experimental validation of leakage detection in a ﬂuid power pitch system using a
state augmented ekf-approach. In Proceedings of the BATH/ASME 2020 Symposium on Fluid Power & Motion Control, Virtual,
9–11 September 2020. [CrossRef]
21. Liniger, J.; Sepehri, N.; Soltani, M.; Pedersen, H.C. Signal-based gas leakage detection for ﬂuid power accumulators in wind
turbines. Energies 2017 ,10, 331. [CrossRef]
22. Liniger, J.; Pedersen, H.C.; Soltani, M. Model-based estimation of gas leakage for ﬂuid power accumulators in wind turbines. In
Proceedings of the ASME/BATH 2017 Symposium on Fluid Power & Motion Control, Sarasota, FL, USA, 16–19 October 2017.
23. Helwig, N.; Pignanelli, E.; Schütze, A.; Schutze, A. Condition monitoring of a complex hydraulic system using multivariate
statistics. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference (I2MTC)
Proceedings, Pisa, Italy, 11–14 May 2015; pp. 210–215.
24. Sørensen, F.F.; von Benzon, M.S.; Klemmensen, S.S.; Schmidt, K.; Liniger, J. Estimation of prepressure in hydraulic piston
accumulators for industrial wind turbines using multi-model adaptive estimation. In Proceedings of the ASME/BATH 2019
Symposium on Fluid Power, Longboat Key, FL, USA, 7–9 October 2019. [CrossRef]
25. Nielsen, J.; Nielsen, S.K.; Mølgaard Jeppesen, O.; Neubauer, J.L. A Hydraulic Pitch System for a Wind Turbine. World Patent
Application WO2013/079071,A1, 6 June 2013.
26. Minami, T.; Yatomi, Y.; Doi, H. Wind Turbine Generator and Soundness Diagnosis Method Thereof. US Patent Application
12/675,258, 15 December 2011.
27. Jameson, N.J.; Azarian, M.H.; Pecht, M. Fault diagnostic opportunities for solenoid operated valves using physics-of-failure
analysis. In Proceedings of the 2014 International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, Cheney, WA, USA, 22–25
June 2014; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
28. Ramos Filho, J.R.B.U.; Negri, V .J.U. Model-Based Fault Detection for Hydraulic Servoproportional Valves. In Proceedings of the
13th Scandinavian International Conference on Fluid Power, Linköping, Sweden, 3–5 June 2013; pp. 389–398.
29. Jouppila, V .; Kuusisto, J.; Ellman, A. A model-based method for condition monitoring of a proportional valve. In Proceedings of
the Power Transmission and Motion Control (PTMC2004), Universtity of Bath, Bath, UK, 1–3 September 2004; pp. 309–317.
30. Moseler, O.; Straky, H. Fault Detection of a Solenoid Valve For Hydraulic Systems in Vehicles. Opt. Lett. 2000 ,4, 119–124.
[CrossRef]
31. Raduenz, H.; Mendoza, Y.E.A.; Ferronatto, D.; Souza, F.J.; da Bastos, P .P .; Soares, J.M.C.; Negri, V .J.D. Online fault detection
system for proportional hydraulic valves. J. Braz. Soc. Mech. Sci. Eng. 2018 ,40, 331. [CrossRef]
32. Adrees, A. Fault Detection of Solenoid Valves Using Current Signature Analysis. Master’s Thesis, The University of Shefﬁeld,
Shefﬁeld, UK, 2009.
33. Tsai, H.H.; Tseng, C.Y. Detecting solenoid valve deterioration in in-use electronic diesel fuel injection control systems. Sensors
2010 ,10, 7157–7169. [CrossRef]
34. Liniger, J.; Stubkier, S.; Soltani, M.; Pedersen, H.C. Early Detection of Coil Failure in Solenoid Valves. IEEE/ASME Trans.
Mechatron. 2018 ,25, 683–693. [CrossRef]
35. Helwig, N.; Pignanelli, E.; Schütze, A. Detecting and Compensating Sensor Faults in a Hydraulic Condition Monitoring System.
Proc. Sens. 2015 , 641–646. [CrossRef]
36. Garimella, P .; Yao, B. Model Based Fault Detection of an Electro-Hydraulic Cylinder. Proc. Am. Control. Conf. 2005 ,1, 484–489.
37. Mosallaei, M.; Salahshoor, K. Sensor Fault Detection using Adaptive Modiﬁed Extended Kalman Filter Based on Data Fusion
Technique. In Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Information and Automation for Sustainability, Colombo, Sri
Lanka, 12–14 December 2008; pp. 513–518. [CrossRef]
38. Salgueiro, B.J.; Peršin, G.; Vižintin, J.; Ivanoviˇ c, M.; Dolenc, B. On-line oil monitoring and diagnosis. Stroj. Vestnik/J. Mech. Eng.
2013 ,59, 604–612. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 1305 15 of 15
39. Gao, Y.; Zhang, Q.; Kong, X. Wavelet Based Pressure Analysis for Hydraulic Pump Health Diagnosis. Trans. ASAE 2003 ,46,
969–976.
40. Gao, Y.; Kong, X.; Shang, Q. Wavelet Approach for Performance Monitoring and Diagnosis of a Hydrulic Pump. In Proceedings
of the 6th JFPS International Symposium on Fluid Power, Tsukuba, Japan, 7–10 November 2005; pp. 711–716.
41. Ramden, T.; Weddfelt, K.; Palmberg, J.O. Condition Monitoring of Fluid Power Pumps by Vibration Measurement. In Proceedings
of the 10th International Conference on Fluid Power—The Future for Hydraulics, Brugge, Belgium, 5–7 April 1993; pp. 263–276.
42. Johnston, N.; Todd, C. Condition Monitoring of Aircraft Fuel Pumps using Pressure Ripple Measurements. In Proceedings of the
Fluid Power and Motion Control, Bath, UK, 15–17 September 2010.
43. An, L.; Sepehri, N. Hydraulic actuator circuit fault detection using extended Kalman ﬁlter. In Proceedings of the 2003 American
Control Conference, Denver, CO, USA, 4–6 June 2003; pp. 4261–4266. [CrossRef]
44. Chen, L.; Shi, F.; Patton, R. Active FTC for hydraulic pitch system for an off-shore wind turbine. In Proceedings of the Conference
on Control and Fault-Tolerant Systems, SysTol, Nice, France, 9–11 October 2013; pp. 510–515. [CrossRef]
45. Khan, H.; Abou, S.C.; Sepehri, N. Nonlinear observer-based fault detection technique for electro-hydraulic servo-positioning
systems. Mechatronics 2005 ,15, 1037–1059. [CrossRef]
46. Shi, F.; Patton, R.J. A robust adaptive approach to wind turbine pitch actuator component fault estimation. In Proceedings
of the 2014 UKACC International Conference on Control (CONTROL 2014-Proceedings), Loughborough, UK, 9–11 July 2014;
pp. 468–473. [CrossRef]
47. Tan, H.Z.; Sepehri, N. Parametric fault diagnosis for electrohydraulic cylinder drive units. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2002 ,
49, 96–106. [CrossRef]
48. Ding, Y. Data Science for Wind Energy ; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, USA, 2019. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
