Citation: Fan, Q.; Wang, X.; Yuan, J.;
Liu, X.; Hu, H.; Lin, P . A Review of
the Development of Key
Technologies for Offshore Wind
Power in China. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,
10, 929. https://doi.org/10.3390/
jmse10070929
Academic Editor:
Mohamed Benbouzid
Received: 10 June 2022
Accepted: 3 July 2022
Published: 6 July 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
Journal of
Marine Science 
and Engineering
Review
A Review of the Development of Key Technologies for Offshore
Wind Power in China
Qixiang Fan1,*, Xin Wang2, Jing Yuan2, Xin Liu3, Hao Hu4and Peng Lin2,*
1China Huaneng Group Co., Ltd., Beijing 100031, China
2Department of Hydraulic Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China;
xin-wang19@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn (X.W.); yuanj2021@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn (J.Y.)
3Huaneng Clean Energy Technology Research Institute Co., Ltd., Beijing 102209, China; x_liu@qny.chng.com.cn
4Huaneng Jiangsu Clean Energy Branch, Nanjing 210008, China; huhao3232@126.com
*Correspondence: qx_fan@chng.com.cn (Q.F.); celinpe@tsinghua.edu.cn (P .L.)
Abstract: In recent years, Offshore Wind Power (OWP) has gained prominence in China’s national
energy strategy. However, the levelized cost of electricity (LCoE) of wind power must be further
reduced to match the average wholesale price. The cost-cutting and revenue-generating potential
of offshore wind generation depends on technological innovation. The most recent studies and
applications of offshore wind technology are thoroughly examined. (1) Techniques for site selection,
such as site surveys, wind resource assessments, and environmental factors, are reviewed. (2) Three
main technical components in offshore wind farms are discussed, including wind turbine, founda-
tions, and booster stations. (3) The state-of-the-art method of the offshore wind farm’s construction
and operation and maintenance (O&M) practices is discussed. In situ marine geological surveying,
large-scale offshore wind turbine manufacturing, integrated structural design, ﬂoating foundation
design, ﬂexible DC transmission technology, shortage of specialized vessels and equipment for
construction, intelligence of O&M, and other issues are challenging China’s OWP industry. A brief
overview of China’s efforts in standardization, parity, and research and development are discussed.
Recommendations for future development of the wind power industry are provided for China, which
may be referable for other nations with comparable circumstances.
Keywords: offshore wind power; levelized cost of electricity; integrated structure design; intelligent
O&M; OWP value creation
1. Introduction
The massive consumption of fossil fuels has brought many environmental problems
and accelerated global warming, which stimulated the development of renewable energy.
Wind power, as a sustainable energy source with a competitive cost, is considered to be
the ideal renewable energy choice for achieving emission reduction targets. According to
EMBER [ 1], renewable energy accounted for 38.3% of the total global power generation
in 2021, of which wind power accounted for 6.7%. Without many limiting factors of
onshore wind farms (e.g., noise, visual impacts, and land use), offshore wind farms are
more capable of fully maximizing power generation efﬁciency. By 2021, the total installed
power-generating capacity of global OWP reached 54.0 GW, showing that OWP has become
a mainstream energy source [2,3].
In 1990, the ﬁrst test offshore wind turbine (sitting on a tripod foundation) was built in
Sweden (220 kW, 250 m offshore distance, and 6 m water depth). Shortly, the Vindeby wind
farm in Denmark, the ﬁrst commercial OWP (4.95 MW), was put into operation in 1991
with an offshore distance of 1.5 to 3 km. This meritorious wind farm, called “the cradle
of the OWP industry”, has provided valuable experience for the future development of
OWP . In the following years, many small offshore wind farms were built in Europe, with
an offshore distance up to 7 km and a water depth up to 8 m. Subsequently, offshore wind
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929. https://doi.org/10.3390/jmse10070929 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jmse
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 2 of 25
turbines with megawatt-level capacity were developed and applied worldwide. In 2000,
the ﬁrst large-scale offshore wind farm, the Middelgrunden wind farm, which is composed
of twenty 2 MW wind turbines, was constructed 3.5 km away from the Copenhagen Port.
This project promoted the construction of another two larger offshore wind farms, namely
Horns Rev I (160 MW) and Nysted (165.2 MW), in 2003. While the annual installed capacity
of offshore wind farms kept breaking the record, several problems emerged. Due to the
harsh marine conditions, construction costs and failure rates of wind turbines were much
higher than anticipated, which limited the growth of the OWP industry for a long period
of time. This is the main reason for the very slow growth rate of cumulative installed
capacity during 2003 to 2006. Nevertheless, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs)
and developers made great efforts to overcome many problems in the construction and
operation process and ﬁnally accelerated the bloom of offshore wind farms in Europe [ 4].
By 2020, 162 offshore wind farms had been put into operation worldwide, and 26 offshore
wind farms were under construction.
Many countries actively promote the bidding of OWP and the industrialized develop-
ment of the OWP industry. It is predicted that the on-grid electricity price of OWP projects
built in 2025 will likely be 0.5–0.55 CNY/kW, with a reduction of 0.3 CNY/kW from 2010
in China. The decline in wind energy price is mainly due to technological advancement,
improved management, and reduction in ﬁnancing costs, and the era of the connection to
the grid at a competitive price is likely to come soon.
China’s OWP industry has experienced nearly a decade of accelerating development
(as shown in Figure 1), and the total capacity in 2021 was ranked to be the ﬁrst worldwide.
In 2007, China’s ﬁrst 1.5 MW offshore wind turbine was installed in the Bohai Sea and
connected to an independent power grid for an offshore oil ﬁeld. Three years later, the
Donghai Bridge offshore wind farm, the ﬁrst OWP demonstration project in Asia, was
put into operation, which consists of thirty-four 3 MW wind turbines supplied by Sinovel
were installed. From 2016 to 2020 year, the total installed capacity of OWP in China
would reach 10 GW, and the grid-connected capacity would reach more than 5 GW. This
also shows that it is necessary to have breakthroughs in the design and construction of a
complete set of key technologies for offshore wind farms and to improve corresponding
industry standards, provincial plans, and subsidy policies. From 2021, many coastal
provinces in China have announced energy development plans to guide te planning,
government subsidies, and technology development. For example, Guangdong province
announced that the subsidies for full capacity grid-connected projects in 2022 and 2023
are 1500 CNY/kW and 1000 CNY/kW, respectively, equivalent to a one-time subsidy for
the construction cost. Zhejiang province will also introduce provincial ﬁnancial subsidy
policies to promote the sustainable development of OWP .
Although China’s OWP has developed on a massive scale, compared with favorable
marine conditions in Europe, the complexity of China’s marine conditions makes it more
difﬁcult to reduce the LCoE of offshore wind farm projects. Based on the data obtained
from some major wind farms in China, the costs of construction and operation period are
around 65–75% and 25–35% of LCoE, respectively. Figure 2 shows the cost breakdown,
which prioritizes the main components, of which the costs should be reduced. Figure 3
shows the key technologies for a typical offshore wind frame, which can be categorized into
the following: (1) site selection methods, (2) wind farm components, and (3) construction
(O&M). In this study, Section 2 reviews the site selection methods for offshore wind
farms and primary inﬂuence factors. Section 3 summarizes the key components of an
offshore wind farm, including offshore wind turbines, offshore wind foundation, and
booster stations. With the current solution and development trends of offshore wind
farms’ construction, O&M is brieﬂy outlined in Section 4. In each section, the problems
emerging in the development of China’s OWP were discussed and China’s efforts in
technological innovation were introduced. Recommendations for the future development
were also elucidated.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 3 of 25
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 26 
 
  
Figure 1. The total installed capacity of OWP over the years. 
Although China’s OWP has developed on a massive scale, compared with favorable 
marine conditions in Europe, the complexity of China’s marine conditions makes it more difficult to reduce the LCoE of offshore wi nd farm projects. Based on the data obtained 
from some major wind farms in China, the costs of construction and operation period are 
around 65–75% and 25–35% of LCoE, respective ly. Figure 2 shows the cost breakdown, 
which prioritizes the main components, of which the costs should be reduced. Figure 3 
shows the key technologies for a typical offs hore wind frame, which can be categorized 
into the following: (1) site selection methods, (2) wind farm components, and (3) construc-
tion (O&M). In this study, Section 2 reviews the site selection methods for offshore wind 
farms and primary influence factors. Section 3 summarizes the key components of an off-
shore wind farm, including offshore wind turbines, offshore wind foundation, and 
booster stations. With the current solution and development trends of offshore wind 
farms’ construction, O&M is briefly outlined in Section 4. In each section, the problems 
emerging in the development of China’s OWP were discussed and China’s efforts in tech-
nological innovation were introduced. Recommendations for the future development were also elucidated. 
  
(a) ( b) 
Figure 2. Estimated cost breakdown of China’s OWP projects. ( a) Construction period; ( b) operation 
period. 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.7 1.0 1.6 2.8 4.4 6.8 10.0 26.0 
4.1 4.4 7.0 8.7 12.1 14.4 18.8 23.0 29.1 35.3 54.0 
6.34%8.86%6.14%7.47% 8.26%11.11%14.89%19.13%23.37%28.33%48.15%
0.00%5.00%10.00%15.00%20.00%25.00%30.00%35.00%40.00%45.00%50.00%
0.010.020.030.040.050.060.070.080.090.0100.0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021Installed capacity (GW)
YearChina
Global
Proportion of China in the world
Figure 1. The total installed capacity of OWP over the years.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 26 
 
  
Figure 1. The total installed capacity of OWP over the years. 
Although China’s OWP has developed on a massive scale, compared with favorable 
marine conditions in Europe, the complexity of China’s marine conditions makes it more difficult to reduce the LCoE of offshore wi nd farm projects. Based on the data obtained 
from some major wind farms in China, the costs of construction and operation period are 
around 65–75% and 25–35% of LCoE, respective ly. Figure 2 shows the cost breakdown, 
which prioritizes the main components, of which the costs should be reduced. Figure 3 
shows the key technologies for a typical offs hore wind frame, which can be categorized 
into the following: (1) site selection methods, (2) wind farm components, and (3) construc-
tion (O&M). In this study, Section 2 reviews the site selection methods for offshore wind 
farms and primary influence factors. Section 3 summarizes the key components of an off-
shore wind farm, including offshore wind turbines, offshore wind foundation, and 
booster stations. With the current solution and development trends of offshore wind 
farms’ construction, O&M is briefly outlined in Section 4. In each section, the problems 
emerging in the development of China’s OWP were discussed and China’s efforts in tech-
nological innovation were introduced. Recommendations for the future development were also elucidated. 
  
(a) ( b) 
Figure 2. Estimated cost breakdown of China’s OWP projects. ( a) Construction period; ( b) operation 
period. 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.7 1.0 1.6 2.8 4.4 6.8 10.0 26.0 
4.1 4.4 7.0 8.7 12.1 14.4 18.8 23.0 29.1 35.3 54.0 
6.34%8.86%6.14%7.47% 8.26%11.11%14.89%19.13%23.37%28.33%48.15%
0.00%5.00%10.00%15.00%20.00%25.00%30.00%35.00%40.00%45.00%50.00%
0.010.020.030.040.050.060.070.080.090.0100.0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021Installed capacity (GW)
YearChina
Global
Proportion of China in the world
Figure 2. Estimated cost breakdown of China’s OWP projects. ( a) Construction period; ( b) opera-
tion period.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 26 
 
  
Figure 3. Key technologies in an  offshore wind farm. 
2. Site Selection for Offshore Wind Farm 
2.1. Wind Energy Resource Assessment 
Offshore wind energy resource assessments include macro-site selection, mesoscale 
simulation, and micro-site selection. 
Macro-site selection is for planning the de velopment of OWP at the national (or pro-
vincial) level. The distribution  of wind energy resources over a large offshore area is first 
calculated based on historical weather data for resource assessment. After that, to evaluate 
and calculate wind energy distribution and its statistical characteristics, annual effective 
hours, turbulence and other variables, stak e owners would carry out mesoscale numerical 
simulation, where wind parameters over the area under evaluation are obtained for cal-
culating wind energy resources in conjunction with wind measurement and satellite re-
mote sensing data. To collect sea surface wi nd data, wind measurement towers are built 
at a few representative locations. Floating Li DAR is an economical and feasible addition 
due to its convenient construction, reusability, and good accuracy [5,6]. In 2013, the Euro-pean OWP industry began to plan the R&D pathway for LiDAR wind measurement tech-
nology; currently, many components are co mmercially available. Germany has clearly 
stated that all future offshore wind farms ar e suggested to use floating lidar devices for 
wind measurement. China is also actively developing a floating lidar wind measurement 
system (WindMast 350-MB). Floating lidar wi nd measurement is expected to replace fixed 
wind measurement tower in the near future. At the same time, satellite-derived sea sur-
face wind data can be used to supplement in situ measurements. The microwave scat-
terometer is one of the satellite data sources for wind field monitoring at a global scale, and another widely used satellite data source is  Synthetic Aperture Radar data [7]. With 
the monitoring data, the wind field distributi on can be simulated over a large area using 
mesoscale atmospheric numerical models, su ch as MASS, TAMP, MC2, and MRF [8–10]. 
Mesoscale models can capture the large and medium-sized circulation process, but its pa-
rameter simplification of turbulent motion in the boundary layer is not applicable in the areas with strong turbulence (e.g., coastal ar ea with complex terrain and active small-scale 
process). 
Figure 3. Key technologies in an offshore wind farm.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 4 of 25
2. Site Selection for Offshore Wind Farm
2.1. Wind Energy Resource Assessment
Offshore wind energy resource assessments include macro-site selection, mesoscale
simulation, and micro-site selection.
Macro-site selection is for planning the development of OWP at the national (or
provincial) level. The distribution of wind energy resources over a large offshore area is
ﬁrst calculated based on historical weather data for resource assessment. After that, to
evaluate and calculate wind energy distribution and its statistical characteristics, annual
effective hours, turbulence and other variables, stake owners would carry out mesoscale
numerical simulation, where wind parameters over the area under evaluation are obtained
for calculating wind energy resources in conjunction with wind measurement and satellite
remote sensing data. To collect sea surface wind data, wind measurement towers are built at
a few representative locations. Floating LiDAR is an economical and feasible addition due
to its convenient construction, reusability, and good accuracy [ 5,6]. In 2013, the European
OWP industry began to plan the R&D pathway for LiDAR wind measurement technology;
currently, many components are commercially available. Germany has clearly stated
that all future offshore wind farms are suggested to use ﬂoating lidar devices for wind
measurement. China is also actively developing a ﬂoating lidar wind measurement system
(WindMast 350-MB). Floating lidar wind measurement is expected to replace ﬁxed wind
measurement tower in the near future. At the same time, satellite-derived sea surface wind
data can be used to supplement in situ measurements. The microwave scatterometer is one
of the satellite data sources for wind ﬁeld monitoring at a global scale, and another widely
used satellite data source is Synthetic Aperture Radar data [ 7]. With the monitoring data,
the wind ﬁeld distribution can be simulated over a large area using mesoscale atmospheric
numerical models, such as MASS, TAMP , MC2, and MRF [ 8–10]. Mesoscale models can
capture the large and medium-sized circulation process, but its parameter simpliﬁcation of
turbulent motion in the boundary layer is not applicable in the areas with strong turbulence
(e.g., coastal area with complex terrain and active small-scale process).
Micro-site selection is the process of selecting wind turbines and optimizing the wind-
farm layout for maximizing power generation. Due to the limitations of the temporal
and spatial resolution and incompletion of meteorological data, high-resolution meteo-
rological models are often used in the micro-site selection of wind farms. Currently, the
commonly used software for analysis is WAsP (linear model) for relatively ﬂat underlying
surface and CFD models for complex terrain. The software for offshore wind farm site
selection includes WasP , WindPro, Meteodyn WT, WindFarmer, FUGA, and Openwind. In
micro-site selection, the wake effect is a critical factor for determining power generation.
Katic et al. [11] proposed the PARK model, which assumes that the wake inﬂuence zone is
a conical shape that is uniformly distributed along the cross-section. The wake inﬂuence
zone linearly expands with the distance, while the speed attenuation mode of the wake
involves linear recovery. The FUGA model proposed by Ott et al. [ 12] assumes that the
sea surface airﬂow is incompressible and is a lid-driven ﬂow, and the Monin–Obukhov
similarity theory was used to describe the sea surface atmospheric boundary layer, which
makes FUGA more realistic than other wake models using the single-temperature boundary
layer theory. The EVM model proposed by Ainslie [ 13] assumes that the wake region is
two-dimensional axisymmetric and uses a series of assumptions such as vortex viscous
turbulence to solve the RANS equation and obtain the relevant parameters of the ﬂow
ﬁeld. Some intelligent optimization methods have been successfully applied in micro-site
selection. For example, a Multi-Population Genetic Algorithm program (MPGA) was used
to optimize the layout of wind turbines based on the minimum investment cost and optimal
power generation [ 14], and a genetic algorithm and a particle swarm optimizer [ 15] were
applied to design the offshore wind farm’s layout. Later, Sun et al. [ 16] improved the MPGA
by adding a new directional restriction method to consider the inﬂuence of wind directions,
which can exploit the wind resource more effectively and can be used in nonuniform wind
farm design.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 5 of 25
In the assessment of offshore wind resources, the impact of marine climate events
on offshore wind farms, particularly typhoons, must be considered. Although tropical
typhoons may bring a longer period of “full power” to wind farms, they typically cause
serious damages to wind turbines. Therefore, it is very important to study the impact
of typhoons on OWP to maximize beneﬁts and avoid damages. To assess the impact of
typhoons, historical tropical typhoon occurring within a radius of 100 km from the wind
farm should be investigated for their occurring frequency, track characteristics, and seasonal
and inter-annual differences. Then, the changes of wind speed and direction during the
typhoon should be analyzed to provide a basis for coping with the typhoon. Extreme value
analysis is conducted based on historical typhoon record to provide an extreme wind speed
associated with a certain return period, which is used for selecting wind turbine.
Above all, the work content of wind resources assessment in the design includes wind
resources assessment, typhoon weather, and wind turbine selection and layout (Figure 4).
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 26 
 
 Micro-site selection is the process of selecting wind turbines and optimizing the 
wind-farm layout for maximizing power gene ration. Due to the limitations of the tem-
poral and spatial resolution and incompletion of meteorological data, high-resolution me-
teorological models are often used in the micro-site selection of wind farms. Currently, 
the commonly used software for analysis is WAsP (linear model) for relatively flat under-
lying surface and CFD models for complex terr ain. The software for offshore wind farm 
site selection includes WasP, WindPro, Meteodyn WT, WindFarmer, FUGA, and Open-
wind. In micro-site selection, the wake effect is a critical factor for determining power generation. Katic et al. [11]  proposed the PARK model, which assumes that the wake in-
fluence zone is a conical shape that is uniformly distributed along the cross-section. The 
wake influence zone linearly expands with th e distance, while the speed attenuation mode 
of the wake involves linear recovery. The FUGA  model proposed by O tt et al. [12] assumes 
that the sea surface airflow is incompressible and is a lid-driven flow, and the Monin–
Obukhov similarity theory was used to desc ribe the sea surface atmospheric boundary 
layer, which makes FUGA more realistic than other wake models using the single-tem-
perature boundary layer theory. The EVM model proposed by Ainslie [13]  assumes that 
the wake region is two-dimensional axisymmetric and uses a series of assumptions such 
as vortex viscous turbulence to solve the RA NS equation and obtain the relevant param-
eters of the flow field. Some intelligent opti mization methods have been successfully ap-
plied in micro-site selection. For example, a Multi-Population Genetic Algorithm program 
(MPGA) was used to optimize the layout of wind turbines based on the minimum invest-ment cost and optimal power generation [14], and a genetic algorithm and a particle 
swarm optimizer [15] were applied to design the offshore wind farm’s layout. Later, Sun 
et al. [16] improved the MPGA by adding a new directional restriction method to consider 
the influence of wind directions, which can ex ploit the wind resource more effectively and 
can be used in nonuniform wind farm design. 
In the assessment of offshore wind resources, the impact of marine climate events on 
offsho re w in d f arms , p articu lar ly  typhoons, m ust b e cons idered .  Altho ugh tr opical ty-
phoons may bring a longer period of “full po wer” to wind farms, they typically cause 
serious damages to wind turbines. Therefore, it  is very important to study the impact of 
typhoons on OWP to maximize benefits and av oid damages. To assess the impact of ty-
phoons, historical tropical typhoon occurring within a radius of 100 km from the wind 
farm should be investigated for their occurring frequency, track characteristics, and sea-
sonal and inter-annual differences. Then, the changes of wind speed and direction during 
the typhoon should be analyzed to provide a basis for coping with the typhoon. Extreme 
value analysis is conducted based on histor ical typhoon record to provide an extreme 
wind speed associated with a certain return period, which is used for selecting wind tur-
bine. 
Above all, the work content of wind resources assessment in the design includes 
wind resources assessment, typhoon weather, and wind turbine selection and layout (Fig-
ure 4). 
 •Wind characteristic parameters
•Wind speed extrapolation at hub
•Long-term wind speed correction
•Historical typhoon statistics
•Return period wind speed estimation
•Strong wind characteristics•Spacing adaptive optimization
•Wake and turbulence analysis
•Sensitivity analysisWind resource assessment
Typhoon impact assessment Wind turbine layout
Figure 4. OWP resource assessment.
2.2. Site Survey
Site surveys provide necessary and reliable seabed topography, seabed geotechnical,
and marine environmental characteristics for offshore wind farm design and construction.
The survey result provides a scientiﬁc basis for foundation design, installation of offshore
structures, and prevention measures of unfavorable geological phenomena.
A typical survey for offshore wind farms can be divided into four parts: (1) geophysical
survey including water depth, seabed topography, seabed obstacles, and bottom proﬁles; (2)
geological survey including the stratum spatial distribution and its physical and mechanical
properties, as well as unfavorable geological and seismic factors; (3) marine surveying
and mapping including surface/underwater positioning, installation positioning, and
submarine cable laying positioning; (4) marine environment survey including ocean current,
water level observation, water and mud temperature observation, water quality analysis,
corrosion analysis, etc. The survey methods mainly include side-scan sonar, stratum
proﬁler, multiple-beam system, magnetometer pipeline detector, high-resolution multi-
channel digital seismic survey, geological borehole sampling, borehole/seabed in situ test,
geotechnical test, and analysis.
In the era of OWP parity, comprehensive and detailed marine geological surveys
are needed to avoid unfavorable geological conditions for initial site selection and wind
turbine layout and to provide data for foundation selection and engineering design. At
the same time, advanced geotechnical experiment methods are needed to obtain accurate
soil conditions, combine the basic design method with soil parameters, and integrate the
survey into the design, which makes it possible to increase the efﬁciency and, therefore,
reduce the costs. In addition, under the changing marine environment, micro-site selection
should also consider the changing seabed morphology. Due to the development of other
coastal infrastructure, navigation, or estuarine processes, the seabed at the selected site can
have some ongoing erosion/deposition, which may affect the stability of wind turbines.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 6 of 25
Thus, these exiting morphological processes should be carefully studied and considered in
the design of wind turbine foundations (e.g., propose protection measures against erosion).
2.3. Environmental Concerns
The construction of offshore wind farms would produce electromagnetic pollution,
noise pollution, visual impact, ecological damage, etc., which negatively impact the local
habitat. Therefore, the planning and site selection of offshore wind farms should follow
the basic principles stipulated in national standards to meet the economic and safety
requirements, as well as the needs of environmental protection to minimize the impact on
birds, ﬁsheries, and native reserves.
Some studies [ 17,18] have shown less bird activity in the wind farm area, which may
be caused by collision with turbine blades and habitat loss. Collision mainly occurs during
the bird migration activities, such as traveling between resting and foraging places or the
seasonal migration of some low ﬂying birds. In addition, most resident birds are susceptible
to the noise generated by the blade sweeping and mechanical operation and avoid the
offshore wind farm. Moreover, the light in the offshore wind farm is also an important
factor affecting birds’ safety, particularly when there is a low visibility (e.g., night time
and foggy or rainy weather), since birds are easily attracted by the light. Peterson and
Fox [ 19] found that some birds could gradually adapt to the changed habitat after the
wind farm’s construction. Shi et al. [ 20] reckons the Donghai Bridge offshore wind farm is
located far away from the bird habitat and foraging area, and it almost has no inﬂuence
on birds. Therefore, the layout of wind turbines could minimize the effects to birds by
reasonably avoiding migration routes and primary habitats of birds and taking necessary
preventive measures, such as painting warning colors at birds ﬂying height. Meanwhile,
the government also should promote the relevant environmental legislation.
For marine life, many research studies have shown that the construction of offshore
wind farms mainly affects ﬁsh, benthic organisms, and plankton species [ 21]. While during
operation, it is hard to estimate the impact, most scholars believe that electromagnetic ﬁelds
and noise will affect the growth of marine life. At the same time, some studies pointed
out that the underwater foundations would create new habitat for marine life, which has a
positive effect on the abundance and diversity of local species [ 22,23]. Recently, the concept
of combining marine ranch and offshore wind farm has been proposed, which uses offshore
wind foundations as a place for marine life. Offshore wind farms and marine ranches can
use an integrated development strategy, e.g., facility sharing and joint O&M, which could
effectively reduce operational costs and ecological impact. On January, 2022, the Mingyang
group completed the ﬁrst harvest of ﬁsh in Guangdong Yangjiang Shaba deep-sea ﬁshery
breeding experimental area, which also marks the success of China’s ﬁrst “OWP + marine
pasture” demonstration project.
Offshore wind-to-hydrogen is another feasible method for increasing the revenue of
offshore wind farms, and China is actively looking for economically feasible methods to
implement this concept. One possibility is to build onshore hydrogen facilities to absorb
excessive power generation. Another idea is to produce hydrogen offshore; i.e., all power
generated by wind turbines is used for production, eliminating the need for submarine
cables, sea booster stations, DC/AC inverters, and transformers in the wind turbines.
2.4. Current Status in China
In China, offshore wind farm survey still has some shortcomings and challenges:
(1) few survey ships with strong offshore operation ability; (2) incomplete survey speci-
ﬁcation and immature survey and indoor test equipment; (3) relatively low survey cost
and attention. These problems lead to the severe disturbance of seabed sampling, the weak
ability of advanced geotechnical tests, and the lack of comprehensive stratum information,
which might bring unforeseeable risks for design, installation, and operation. This includes
pile running, deﬁned as uncontrolled rapid sinking under the weight of pile and hammer
or few hammering, which often occurs in the construction of offshore wind farms with inac-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 7 of 25
curate geological information. Therefore, China urgently needs to improve its exploration
capability, build offshore exploration platforms dedicated for China’s marine environment,
and develop geotechnical testing equipment and technology to obtain reliable in situ test
data. Meanwhile, China should improve offshore wind farm survey speciﬁcations and
increase corresponding attention and investment to improve the quality of survey results.
3. Key Technologies of Offshore Wind Farm
3.1. Offshore Wind Turbines
Horizontal-axis offshore wind turbines, most used in offshore wind farms, are mainly
composed of rotors, transmission systems, generators, power electronic interfaces, and
grid-side step-up transformers. The rotating torque generated by the wind acting on the
blades at a certain speed and angle of attack drives the blade to rotate, converting the wind
energy into mechanical energy, which drives the generator to produce electricity. After
being boosted by the transformer, electric energy is connected to the power grid (Figure 5).
This section has summarized the development of key technology of offshore wind turbines,
as shown in Figure 6.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 26 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 5. Energy flow and information flow in offshore wind turbines. ( a) DFIG; ( b) PMSG. 
 
Figure 6. Technology development trends of offshore wind turbines. Gear box DFIG
Control system
Yam systemWind power
Wind 
measurement 
systemWind speed & 
DirectionWind turbine
Speed control M ω 
Power measurementStator grid-connected 
switchRotor-side converter Grid-side converter
CapacitorReactor
Power switch Power gridTransformer
PMSG
Control system
Yam systemWind power
Wind 
measurement 
systemWind speed & 
DirectionWind turbine
Speed controlM ω 
Power measurementRotor-side converter Grid-side converter
CapacitorReactor
Power switch Power gridTransformer
Figure 5. Energy ﬂow and information ﬂow in offshore wind turbines. ( a) DFIG; ( b) PMSG.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 8 of 25
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 26 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 5. Energy flow and information flow in offshore wind turbines. ( a) DFIG; ( b) PMSG. 
 
Figure 6. Technology development trends of offshore wind turbines. Gear box DFIG
Control system
Yam systemWind power
Wind 
measurement 
systemWind speed & 
DirectionWind turbine
Speed control M ω 
Power measurementStator grid-connected 
switchRotor-side converter Grid-side converter
CapacitorReactor
Power switch Power gridTransformer
PMSG
Control system
Yam systemWind power
Wind 
measurement 
systemWind speed & 
DirectionWind turbine
Speed controlM ω 
Power measurementRotor-side converter Grid-side converter
CapacitorReactor
Power switch Power gridTransformer
Figure 6. Technology development trends of offshore wind turbines.
3.1.1. Generator Design
The generator design of offshore wind turbines is a vital factor that directly affects the
initial investment and O&M costs of an offshore wind farm. The commonly used types
of wind turbine generator for offshore wind farms include the following: Double Fed
Induction Generator (DFIG), Squirrel Cage Induction Generator (SCIG), and Permanent
Magnet Synchronous Generator (PMSG) [24].
For a DFIG, the wind wheel is connected to the high-speed generator rotor through
an accelerated gearbox, and the rotor excitation winding is connected to the grid through
the rotor-side and grid-side converters while the stator winding directly to the grid. DFIG
indirectly adjusts the output power of the stator side by controlling the frequency, phase,
and amplitude of rotor current through an excitation converter, so DFIG has the advantages
of being able to operate within a wide range of wind speed, independent adjustment of
active and reactive power, and small capacity need of rotor excitation converter. In addition,
DFIG is small in size and is easy to maintain, but maintenance work, such as dust cleaning
and brush replacing, is frequently required, and the low voltage ride-through capacity is
limited due to the small capacity of the rotor excitation converter.
SCIG is similar in structure to a doubly fed asynchronous wind turbine, while its rotor
is a closed cage structure that does not need brushes and slip rings, and stator winding
needs to be connected to the grid with a full-power converter. The excitation is provided
by the stator-side converter, which absorbs reactive grid power. SCIG has the advantages
of high reliability and wide wind speed range. However, it is not ideal for large-capacity
generators, because of its low efﬁciency.
For PMSG, the wind wheel directly connects to the generator, and stator winding
is connected to the grid through the full-power stator-side and grid-side converters. Ex-
cited by permanent magnets, there is no need to provide an external excitation power
source; thus, the accelerated gearbox is not needed. However, PMSG is still large in size
because of much more pole pairs required. PMSG has the advantages of high power-
generation efﬁciency, high reliability, and strong low-voltage-ride-through capacity, but it
also has the following disadvantages: large size and weight, and high cost of transportation
and hoisting.
In the early offshore wind farms, SCIG was preferred due to its simple structure,
mature manufacturing technology, and low cost. From 2013 to 2015 year, SCIG had
been used for 75% of newly installed offshore wind turbines, while DFIG and PMSG
accounted for 17% and 8%, respectively [ 24]. With the development of generator and
blade manufacturing technology, large-capacity wind turbines are dominant. For offshore
wind farms with the same capacity, large-capacity wind turbines can greatly reduce the
procurement of towers, foundations, and wind turbines, as well as construction, operation,
and maintenance workloads, which resulted in great reduction in LCoE; at the same time,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 9 of 25
the application of large blades and tall towers brings a larger sweeping area and better wind
energy resources, improves the utilization hours, and increases effective power generation.
In the process of large-capacity wind turbines, SCIG gradually withdraws from the market
due to its low power generation efﬁciency. In contrast, PMSG, with high energy utilization
efﬁciency and generator efﬁciency, good reliability, and low maintenance costs, is more
economic in full-life service and leads the OWP generator market. Many prototypes of
10 MW wind turbines are summarized in wind-turbine-models.com [ 25], which shows that
PMSG will dominate the future large-capacity wind turbines.
3.1.2. Blade Design
As offshore wind turbines are becoming larger in size, the length and weight of blades
will continue to increase; thus, the tip deformation and aeroelastic problems will become
more prominent. This will result in a signiﬁcant increase in the load on blades and the entire
machine, seriously affecting the performance and fatigue of the wind turbines. Carbon
ﬁber composite materials and balsa wood are mainly used for large offshore wind turbine
blades. Compared with traditional glass ﬁber, these materials have the advantages of high
strength, high stiffness, fatigue resistance, and light weight, which meet the requirements of
long and ﬂexible blades. The current development of ultra-long and super-ﬂexible blades
can be summarized into the following aspects:
 The aeroelasticity and bending-torsion coupling of ﬂexible blades are investigated,
and the adaptive load reduction of the blades is realized through bending–torsion
coupling control, thereby reducing the blade’s weight [26].
 Through the optimized arrangement of blade materials, aerodynamic damping in the
blade plane is improved to achieve blade shock absorption with the smallest increase
in blade weight.
 By using pneumatic accessories in conjunction with ﬂexible blades, the range of the
angle of attack for stable ﬂow of the airfoil attached surface layer is extended, so
the risk of blade stalls is reduced, and the generating capacity of the wind turbine
is ensured.
 Active control technology has been introduced. By analyzing the blade’s load, move-
ment, and inﬂow information to obtain local strains or displacement, the controller
drives the aerodynamic control system to change the coupling mechanism of the blade
and the ﬂow ﬁeld, which reduces the blade’s aerodynamic load.
3.1.3. Anti-Typhoon Design
The purpose of anti-typhoon designs is for preventing damage relative to the main
structure when encountering a typhoon, of which the maximum wind speed is close to
the designed speed. Extreme wind speed, abnormal turbulence, and sudden changes in
wind direction are the main reasons rendering wind turbines vulnerable to typhoon attacks.
Wind speed above the design condition may cause structural yield failure and a loss of
control of the equipment. Abnormal turbulence could cause vibration, contributing to
extreme fatigue loads. A sudden change of wind direction would easily cause damage
to the yaw system. Anti-typhoon design needs to consider the failure loss and failure
mechanism; set appropriate safety factors for the wind turbine, tower, and foundation;
and even allow the blade to yield when it is necessary to reduce the loads acting on the
entire structure and to protect the tower and foundation. In operation, reasonable control
strategies of braking, yaw, and pitch should be adopted to minimize damages.
3.1.4. Control System
The control system mainly includes the automatic yaw system and pitch control
system, and its overall goal is to maximize power generation, reduce the load on mechanical
components, and protect the wind turbine when the wind speed is too high. The yaw
system can quickly and smoothly make adjustments when the wind direction changes
so that the wind turbine can efﬁciently harvest wind energy. Pitch control system is a
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 10 of 25
device installed in the hub as air braking or power control of wind turbine operation by
changing blade angle. When the wind direction changes, the yaw system will send the
yaw command through the output signal of the wind direction sensor and control the
yaw motor to drive the yaw gearbox to perform the correction; thus, the wind wheel can
harvest the maximum wind energy. In recent years, scholars have carried out many studies
on the active yaw control algorithms for large wind turbines, including Hill Climbing
algorithm, Vane–Hill Climbing algorithm, Kalman–Hill Climbing algorithm and Fuzzy
control algorithm, etc. [27,28].
The pitch control system enhances the capture of wind energy, and optimizes the
aerodynamic torque and aerodynamic force of the wind turbine by controlling the pitch
angle through the bearing installed in the hub. When the wind turbine operates below the
rated wind speed, the pitch control system sets the pitch angle to zero to render the wind
wheel in the maximum capture state. When the wind speed exceeds the rated wind speed,
it will adjust the pitch angle to stabilize the generator’s output around the rated output.
Pitch control is divided into uniﬁed blade pitch control and individual blade pitch control.
The former makes each blade change the same angle to realize the adjustment of blade
speed and output power; the latter controls each blade’s pitch angle individually to balance
the load and reduce the oscillation. Some advanced wind turbines use the combination
of the two. The output power is adjusted through a uniﬁed pitch control, and the load
of each blade is optimized by using independent pitch control to enhance the stability
of the wind turbine [ 29,30]. The Proportional Integral Derivative (PID) control method
is widely used in pitch control, while large-capacity wind turbine is a typical non-linear,
multivariable, strong coupling, and time-varying system. However, PID control may not
meet the requirements of control accuracy in such complex marine conditions. Therefore,
the development of pitch control focuses on intelligent control methods such as fuzzy
control, neural network control, etc. [31,32]. With respect to pitch power, there are electric
and hydraulic pitch systems. Compared to the electric pitch system, the hydraulic pitch
system has the advantages of small volume, light weight, good dynamic response, large
torque, and no need for a speed change mechanism. At this stage, the major manufacturers,
such as Vestas and Siemens, all adopt the hydraulic pitch technology, which accounts for
more than 70% of the offshore installed capacity.
3.2. Offshore Wind Turbine Foundation
The foundation plays an essential role in ensuring the stability of the wind turbine.
There are two general types of foundation: ﬁxed and ﬂoating foundations. The former
is suitable for shallow waters, and it includes monopile foundation, gravity foundation,
suction bucket, tripod foundation and jacket foundation, etc. (Table 1). Most existing
offshore wind turbines have ﬁxed foundations, especially monopile foundations [ 33].
As water depth increases, the cost of ﬁxed foundations increases sharply; thus, ﬂoating
foundations become more suitable choices for deep waters. However, commercial-ready
applications still require research on the overall structure dynamic characteristics, the
foundation bearing mechanism, soil failure mechanism, the structure design method, and
the construction technology.
3.2.1. Fixed Foundation Design
The foundation design mainly carries out limit state and fatigue analyses for the
foundation structure under the loads including wind, wave, current, ice, earthquake, and
superstructure load, considering the scour [ 34] and dynamic responses of the structure [ 35]
as well (the natural frequency of the structure must not match the external load frequency)
so as to provide a basis for the selection of foundation structure. There are two general
methods for designing foundation: the integrated design method and SIA (Sequentially Iter-
ative Approach). The integrated design method takes the wind turbine, tower, foundation,
and external environment as an overall system, and it obtains accurate structural dynamic
response through integrated numerical analysis. DNV .GL proposed the integrated design
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 11 of 25
concept of the offshore wind turbine foundation (Project FORCE) in 2014, which can reduce
LCoE by 12%. This concept includes overall design and relaxation of frequency constraints.
The integrated design enables better connection between wind turbine manufacturing
and support structure design, improving design efﬁciency and accuracy; at the same time,
it relaxes the design range of structure natural frequency; thus, a structural design with
higher rigidity is allowed, greatly saving the amount of steel used.
Table 1. Comparison of several ﬁxed foundation types.
Foundation Technical Principle Water Depth Advantages Disadvantages Applications
MonopileHollow steel cylinder
inserted into the seabed
to provide resistance<30 mLight weight,
simple structure,
convenient
installation, no
need to tidy up the
seabedLargely restricted
by geology, need
anti-scouring
deviceAnholt,
London Array,
Dantysk
GravityMass concrete stabilized
through its own weight<30 mSimple structure,
low cost, high
stability, and
reliabilityNeed to be
pre-treated, long
construction
period, large and
heavy foundation,
inconvenient T&IThornton Bank
phase I
TripodThree diagonal braces
and horizontal braces
welded and connected
to the steel pile, forming
the frame to bear and
transmit loads20~80 mLight weight, good
stability, suitable
for hard seabed,
anti-scouring.Restricted by the
geological
conditions, need a
ﬁxed offshore
construction
platformAlpha Ventus,
Trianel Windpark,
Borkum I,
Global Tech I
JacketComposed of grid row
trusses, three or four
steel pipes are driven
into the bottom to ﬁx the
foundation10~80 mLight weight, high
strength, low
requirements for
piling equipment.High steel demand,
construction is
severely affected
by weatherThornton Bank
phase II, III
Suction bucketThe negative pressure
between the bottom of
drum and soil keeps the
whole system stable5~60 mQuick installation,
no need for
large-scale T&I,
and seabed
pretreatmentEasy to tilt, need
frequent correction,
difﬁcult to designFrederikshavn,
Qidong, Xiangshui
Since tower and foundation are usually supplied by two unrelated manufacturers, it
may not be possible to adopt the integrated design method when the parties involved do
not want to share conﬁdential business information. Under such circumstances, SIA is the
only choice. SIA takes the tower bottom as the interface; thus, the participants carry out
design and optimization iterations for the tower and foundation, respectively. The wind
turbine manufacturer usually carries out modeling and the load calculation of the upper
support structure ﬁrst; then, it checks the tower structure for the limit and fatigue load of
each interface of the tower and then passes the design of the upper part to the foundation to
the foundation designer for further designing. In this process, wind turbine manufacturers
and foundation designer have repeatedly considered the effects of loads such as waves
and currents. Manufacturers and design institutes search for optimal local designs in their
respective design domains, causing conservative structural design.
3.2.2. Floating Foundation Design
By the end of 2020, the total capacity of ﬂoating wind turbines or commercial projects
in operation in the world was 125 MW. The Global Wind Energy Council predicts that
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 12 of 25
6.2 GW ﬂoating wind power projects will be built in the next ten years according to the
existing ﬂoating wind power planning of major countries worldwide.
Reducing ﬂoating wind turbine’s cost will primarily come from the design optimiza-
tion and improved manufacturing process of the wind turbine and ﬂoating platform.
Future research should target improving our understanding and modeling capability of the
loading characteristics, overall bearing capacity, and system’s dynamic response. Secondly,
the mooring system is one of the major technical bottlenecks in designing offshore ﬂoat-
ing structure and is the key to cost control. Common types of mooring include catenary
mooring structure and tension line. For the catenary mooring system, the restoring force of
the anchor chain is mainly realized by the change of the suspended section. It has good
strength and simple manufacturing process, but the weight (cost) increases dramatically
with the depth of application for needing long lay-ﬂat sections on the seabed. Therefore,
tension lines (steel cables) are often used for mooring in deep water, and the binding force
of the mooring lines mainly depends on the tensile deformation of the steel cables. The
tension line uses less steel, but its anchorage section has to bear both horizontal and vertical
forces. Meanwhile, the mooring line stiffness also has large non-linear characteristics such
as relaxation and creep, which increases the difﬁculty and cost for maintenance. In addition,
the dynamic cable is another high-risk source of ﬂoating wind power operation, and its
mechanical and electrical performance also requires integrated analysis with the wind
turbine, ﬂoating platform, and mooring structure.
Several main types of ﬂoating foundations have been developed and reached the stage
of prototype test:
1. Spar: Spar foundation is a closed cylindrical buoy anchored to the seabed by mooring
lines. Its center of gravity is far lower than the center of buoyance, making the
cylindrical buoy ﬂoat upright. The small waterplane design can reduce the heave
motion of the platform. Hywind Scotland pilot park, the ﬁrst ﬂoating offshore wind
farm, adopted this type of foundation. With an installation depth of 100–120 m, the
wind farm is equipped with ﬁve sets of 6 MW wind turbines and is connected to the
grid in the UK in 2017.
2. Tension leg platform (TLP): The TLP idea comes from the offshore oil platform. The
system is partially submerged below the sea surface and anchored to the seabed via
pull rod or cable. The buoyancy force on the submerged part to support the wind
turbine and maintain the tension of the pull rod or cable. TLP can have very little
vertical movement, but its installation process is quite complex, and the applicable
water depth is usually more than 40 m. In 2012, SWAY deployed a single-tension leg
ﬂoating offshore wind turbine in Norway.
3. Semi-submersible: The semi-submersible foundation is formed by connecting a few
cylindrical pontoons in a triangular or rectangular layout, which provides buoyance
force. Catenary mooring lines connect the ﬂoater to the seabed. The applicable water
depth is usually more than 40 m. Principle Power, a developer of ﬂoating offshore
wind turbines, installed a semi-submersible foundation named wind ﬂoat on the
Portuguese coast in 2011, with a capacity of 2 MW.
4. Barge: The barge-type foundation platform is like a vessel. The water depth is usually
more than 30 m. The barge has the advantages of simplicity, easy manufacturing, and
good stability. It can be towed to any location, allowing ﬂexible deployment and low
cost. Floatgen, France’s ﬁrst ﬂoating wind turbine test project, uses a concrete barge-
type ﬂoating wind turbine foundation with a damping pool. One 2 MW prototype
was deployed, and semi-tensioned mooring is realized by six polyester mooring lines.
3.3. Booster Station
3.3.1. Intensiﬁcation and Lightweight of Substation
The offshore booster station collects all the power collection lines and then boosts
and transmits power. It also serves as the control center of the offshore wind farm. With
the increasing capacity demand of offshore booster station, the construction cost has
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 13 of 25
also risen sharply with the increasing weight of the superstructure. The lightweight
substation and its intensiﬁcation are suggested for reducing the construction period and
cost. Recently, CIMC Rafﬂes and Siemens Energy jointly developed 300 MW and 500 MW
prefabricated modular offshore substation (PMOS) and obtained the approval in principle
(AIP) of the China Classiﬁcation Society (CCS) in 2021. The electrical equipment in PMOS
adopts a prefabricated cabin for “modular” conﬁguration, for which its overall dimensions
and ﬁxing methods adopt the existing industrial product standards. The installation,
commissioning, and test of various functional equipment in the prefabricated cabin can
be completed in the factory. For example, pluggable cable terminal connections are used
between electrical modules, which can realize electrical connections inside the substation
without on-site construction and, at the same time, avoid potential safety hazards caused
by cross-construction. Based on the design experience of more than 50 offshore booster
stations, the Huadong Engineering Corporation released SLIM-SO offshore booster station
products, including integration installation solutions and modular installation solutions.
Compared with the booster station of similar on the market, this series of products reduced
the projection area by 25~35%, the weight per MW by 30~40%, the cost by 15~25%, and the
production cycle by 20~30%.
3.3.2. Flexible DC Transmission Technology
After decades of development, high voltage direct current (HVDC) technology is be-
coming mature. Among them, ﬂexible DC transmission technology based on VSC or MMC
and IGBT has great technical and economic advantages for OWP projects with an installed
capacity over 500 MW. Flexible HVDC technology has the following advantages [ 36–39]:
(1) Flexible HVDC converter station can continuously and independently control active
power and reactive power, and the operation control mode is ﬂexible; (2) it has good fault
ride-through capability and black start capability and small space requirements for reactive
power compensation device and ﬁltering equipment. China has made signiﬁcant progress
in the R&D and manufacture of key equipment for ﬂexible DC transmission, including
high power electronic devices, converter valves, HVDC circuit breakers, HVDC converter
transformers, and DC cable, etc. [ 40] For example, in 2017, China Railway Rolling Stock
Corporation (CRRC) developed 4500 V/3600 A press-pack insulated-gate bipolar transistor
(IGBT), which achieved a breakthrough in China’s relevant technologies. Subsequently,
it developed 4500 V/4000 A reverse-conduct IGCT products. In recent years, the voltage
level and transmission capacity of China’s ﬂexible DC transmission projects have reached
the world-class level. On 25 December 2021, the Rudong Jiangsu OWP Flexible DC Trans-
mission Project realized full-capacity grid connection, becoming the ﬁrst OWP ﬂexible DC
transmission project in Asia.
3.4. Current Status in China
Insufﬁcient supply chains have always been a hindrance to the leapfrog development
of China’s OWP industry; thus, achieving the localization of the manufacture of key
components of offshore wind turbine is the primary target of China’s offshore wind industry
in the past decades. As the Chinese government cancels the subsidy policy for OWP projects
after 2021, a rapid installation period has swept through China’s OWP industry, leading to
an imbalance in between the supply and demand of key components’ production capacity,
especially for the main bearings and blades of wind turbine. At the same time, affected
by the suspension of international logistics, shortage of raw materials, and delay in the
resumption of labor resources caused by COVID-19, the constructions of offshore wind
projects were generally delayed for one to three months. However, such a severe situation
has also directly promoted the resumption in all parts of the industrial chain and the
adjustment of local industrial structure. During the epidemic period, the local government,
developers, and manufacturers jointly continued to develop OWP industry bases in Dafeng,
Yangjiang and Fuqing, which enabled China in producing 10 MW wind turbines, large
transformers, and submarine cables of various voltage levels. Despite the challenges, China
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 14 of 25
still maintains the world’s largest new installed capacity, demonstrating the strong ﬂexibility
and resilience of China’s OWP industry. However, there is still a gap with advanced foreign
enterprises in the ﬁelds of the high-performance bearings. For example, the manufacture
of large PMSG generators, which are more popular for wind turbine above 10 MW, is
restricted by the manufacturer’s existing manufacturing capability, and it is difﬁcult to
ensure the processing accuracy and production quality of key components. For another
crucial component, IGBT, China has obtained the key technology and the entire process of
high voltage IGBT manufacturing and initially built a complete industrial chain of high
voltage IGBT. However, the high-performance IGBT used in the high-voltage ﬂexible DC
converter of OWP still relies on imports, and the main suppliers are ABB, Inﬁneon, Toshiba,
Mitsubishi, etc. These suppliers own the key technology of the ﬂexible DC transmission
system’s large-capacity converter of OWP . It has been applied in large-scale offshore wind
farms abroad and accumulated many application experiences. There are mature research
results in China’s main circuit topology, control and protection strategy, modeling and
simulation analysis, transient voltage stability, and design and manufacture of high voltage
and large capacity ﬂexible DC converter. Still, there is little OWP engineering application
experience, and it needs to be further extended.
For offshore wind turbine design, China’s research in wind turbines is relatively
insufﬁcient. For instance, most of the software used in wind turbine design and load
evaluation are products of European companies. The design standards and concepts
are in accordance with the requirements of wind turbine certiﬁcation rules proposed by
DNV and wind turbine technical standards proposed by the International Electrotechnical
Commission (IEC), without fully considering the particularity of China’s wind energy
resources, natural environment, and grid acceptance mode. China’s OWP industry still
needs to motivate the “integrated design”. Therefore, domestic owners should actively
promote the integrated design cooperation between the complete machine manufacturer
and the design institute and promote the uniﬁcation of design standards, the integration
of overall modeling, working conditions, and the overall dynamic loading integration
process. Some leading domestic wind turbine manufacturers, such as Goldwind, and
design institutes have cooperated in carrying out integrated design work and proposed an
integrated design method, iDO (Integrated Design Optimization), based on a digital cloud
platform. The calculation results show the following: under ULS (Ultimate Limit State) and
FLS (Fatigue limit state) conditions, the structural strength, deformation, fatigue damage,
and other indicators of the integrated design method based on the iDO cloud platform
are signiﬁcantly lower than those of the distributed iterative approach (SIA), which can
signiﬁcantly optimize the tower foundation structure, reduce the structural weight, reduce
the cost of the entire support structure, and reduce the LCoE of OWP [41].
4. Key Technology of Construction, Operation, and Maintenance
Marine operation is limited by the sea conditions. The most signiﬁcant inﬂuencing
factors are strong wind and waves [ 42]. For example, the maintenance and repair work of
malfunctioned wind turbine are (stipulated by Standardization Administration of China)
to be carried out under the conditions of wind speed less than 12 m/s, but the actual
conditions on the sea often exceed such requirements, resulting in extending the outage
time. Therefore, a good use of the limited window period with acceptable sea condition is
important to reduce construction and O&M risk, improve efﬁciency, and save costs.
4.1. Construction
4.1.1. Construction Organization Design
The construction of offshore wind turbines and foundations has the following require-
ments [ 43]: (1) good transportation and hoisting capability to cater for large and heavy wind
turbines and foundations; (2) high efﬁciency requirements to cope with the limited window
period; (3) good installation accuracy. Since a small problem will possibly cause extensive
delay and additional cost, the developer needs to optimize the construction organization.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 15 of 25
The construction of offshore foundation has been relatively mature; thus, this section
mainly reviews the construction technology of wind turbine and tower. The construction
of offshore wind turbines has two main approaches, i.e., overall transport and installation
(T & I) and separate T & I. For overall T & I, the entire wind turbine is assembled on shore,
and then it is transported to the site for installation onto the foundation. In order to ensure
stability during transportation, a hoop apparatus is generally used to ﬁx the wind turbine
at the middle section of the tower. In addition, it is necessary to pay attention to avoid
collision between wind turbine tower and platform and ensure the alignment accuracy;l
thus, the stability check of the installation ship is required. The hoisting is not limited by
the water depth, which can reduce the uncertainty in the installation process and reduce
the standby time of ships and personnel, thereby reducing project implementation costs
and risks. However, it has high requirements for installation ship, hoisting slings, and
transportation ﬁxtures. The thirty-four 3 MW wind turbines of the Donghai Bridge Offshore
Wind Farm, the ﬁrst large-scale offshore wind farm in China, adopted this method for
transportation and installation. Separate T & I components are transported separately and
assembled onsite, which reduces operating time and offshore installation difﬁculty. There
are two main assembly schemes: One is to assemble three blades and hub into a wind wheel
system for transportation, and the other is to onshore assemble two blades, hub, and nacelle
for transportation, similarly to “rabbit ears”. The offshore T & I equipment requirements
for separate T & I are relatively low. However, the installation process can be signiﬁcantly
affected by the marine environment, meteorology and geological conditions because of its
high workload, so high stability ships such as the jack-up platform are usually used.
4.1.2. Construction Equipment
Engineering ships for OWP mainly include crane vessel, submersible vessel, non-
self-propelled jack-up vessel, self-propelled jack-up vessel, etc. The self-propelled jack-up
vessel has a large deck equipped with special cranes and piling equipment, which can carry
multiple wind turbines as well. Meanwhile, it has high speed and good maneuverability,
and the widest scope of application. The requirements for the hoisting height and capacity,
operation depth, and specialization of ships are becoming higher, and the construction ship
resources suitable for the next generation of wind turbines, especially for wind turbines
above 10 MW, are facing a shortage. China’s OWP industry is actively addressing this
current shortage. In 2022, the 3000-ton Wudongde, a crane vessel, and the 2000-ton Baihetan,
a self-propelled jack-up vessel, were jointly built by enterprises such as China Three Gorges
Corporation, which can meet the construction requirements of 10 MW+ offshore wind
turbines and ex-tend the annual window by 30 days.
4.2. Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
4.2.1. O&M Strategies
Existing offshore wind farms’ O&M strategies are mainly divided into two categories,
namely preventive maintenance (PM) and corrective maintenance (CM).
Preventive maintenance refers to the maintenance before component failures to keep
the wind turbine in regular operation, which is a proactive maintenance strategy. According
to different maintenance concepts, preventive maintenance can be divided into time-based
maintenance (TBM) and condition-based maintenance (CBM).
Time-based maintenance is also known as periodic maintenance, which makes a main-
tenance plan for each component for periodic maintenance based on equipment failure
patterns. The periodic maintenance cycle is usually half a year, one year, or ﬁve years [ 44].
An unreasonable formulation of regular maintenance plans will lead to excessive mainte-
nance or insufﬁcient maintenance; at the same time, due to the harsh marine environment,
the aging law of wind turbine components may deviate from the theory, and sudden fail-
ures may occur. Therefore, it is not enough to adopt regular maintenance only. Hofmann
and Sperstad [ 45] considered time-based preventive maintenance in their maintenance
model, deﬁning ﬁxed maintenance intervals for components and maintaining their state
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 16 of 25
to the initial value. Sahnoun et al. [ 46] considered a systematic preventive maintenance
strategy based on a determined timetable, which is most effective when components are
periodically degraded.
Condition-based maintenance, also called predictive maintenance, comrpises arrang-
ing a maintenance plan to prevent further component deterioration when speciﬁc condition
monitoring signals are abnormal. Hinrichs [ 47] compared the cost of applying condition-
based and post-maintenance strategies, and the results show that the cost of condition-based
maintenance is lower. Therefore, he suggests that once the monitoring signal of the compo-
nent shows the trend of damage, it should be maintained in the next routine maintenance.
Fu and Yuan [ 29] reviewed and classiﬁed the existing research on condition monitoring
technology from condition information collection, condition information transmission,
fault diagnosis, wind turbine condition control, operation cost analysis, monitoring system
development, etc.
Reliability-centered maintenance strategy and opportunistic maintenance strategy
are two methods belonging to CBM. Reliability-centered maintenance (RCM) is a com-
prehensive method of adopting passive, preventive, and active maintenance strategies in
order to increase the probability of normal operation of machines or components in their
design life cycle with the least amount of maintenance. RCM takes the expert system and
engineering experience as the decision-making basis, carries out the failure mode research
and effect analysis (FEMA) for main components, and makes maintenance plans after clari-
fying maintenance requirements. Igba et al. [ 48] discussed applying RCM to the gearbox
maintenance of wind turbines from the perspective of system approach and proposed a sys-
tematic framework of using RCM to the maintenance of wind turbines. Pattison et al. [49]
proposed an RCM architecture for the offshore wind turbine, including intelligent con-
dition monitoring, reliability, and maintenance modeling, and maintenance schedules to
maximize the availability and proﬁtability of the wind turbine. Du et al. [50] proposed an
RCM framework suitable for offshore wind farms and pointed out that the wind turbine
fault monitoring technology based on data of supervisory control and data acquisition
system (SCADA) and the management technology of spare parts and transportation tools
are the key technologies under this framework.
Opportunistic Maintenance Strategy comprises making full use of the opportunity
of meteorological forecast (mainly wind condition forecast) and corrective maintenance
to carry out preventive maintenance at a low cost. Speciﬁcally, preventive maintenance
is carried out when the wind speed is small or corrective maintenance is needed to re-
duce the shutdown loss and transportation cost, thus reducing overall maintenance costs.
Besnard et al. [44,51] has put forward an optimization framework and stochastic optimiza-
tion model of opportunistic maintenance strategy for the offshore wind farm, and the results
show that opportunistic maintenance strategy can signiﬁcantly reduce maintenance costs.
Corrective maintenance, a passive maintenance strategy , is also called post-maintenance.
Onshore wind farms usually adopt this maintenance strategy because of their good accessi-
bility. Once there is a failure, it can be repaired in time. The early maintenance of offshore
wind farms is directly borrowed from the onshore post-maintenance strategy, including
routine inspection, corrective maintenance and regular maintenance. However, offshore
wind turbines may not be repaired in time due to the harsher environment, resulting
in excessive downtime and losses. In addition, post-maintenance often requires more
maintenance resources, increasing maintenance costs [ 52]. At the same time, due to the
lack of understanding of components’ failure characteristics, this maintenance strategy
cannot formulate targeted maintenance plan for speciﬁc needs, resulting in insufﬁcient or
excessive maintenance.
4.2.2. O&M Equipment and Spare Parts
Due to the unique environment of offshore wind farms, the O&M work needs to rely
on professional O&M ships. At present, the O&M ships used in China are mainly ordinary
O&M ships developed from transportation boats and ﬁshing boats, most of which are
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 17 of 25
steel monohulls, which cannot meet some users’ needs. With the offshore wind farms
gradually moving towards far and deep waters, O&M ships face challenges such as greater
offshore distance and worse sea conditions, where ordinary O&M ships will not meet the
requirements. Therefore, there is an urgent need for professional O&M ships that can
match the maintenance loading and hoisting capacity of large wind turbines. Meanwhile,
as the supply chain of offshore wind turbines is not mature enough, a possible shortage of
spare parts required for maintenance could occur during the limited offshore operation
window, resulting in extensive wind turbine outage losses. Therefore, reasonable spare
parts management is necessary. Currently, the spare parts management modes of offshore
wind farms mainly include spare parts inventory established by manufacturers, owner-built
spare parts inventory, and third-party centralized inventory [53].
When the difﬁculty of O&M becomes greater with increasing offshore distance, the
shutdown of wind turbines would bring more power loss. Helicopters, with higher safety
and commuting efﬁciency, are beginning to be used in the operation and maintenance of
several offshore wind farms in Europe. By taking an offshore wind farm 60 km offshore, it
takes 5 h to arrive by a vessel, while only 30 min is needed to take a helicopter. Obviously,
it is also more useful when there are casualties at sea. On the other hand, the wave height
and wind speed limit are lower for helicopters. Silva and Estanqueiro [ 54] analyzed the
accessibility of three offshore Portuguese maritime regions considering boat with OAS and
helicopter, and they found that boats with OAS technology have an availability between
80 and 90% in the summer period and 60% in the winter season, while it is nearly 100%
for helicopter throughout the year. As the number of helicopter used for maintenance is
increasing, Strbac et al. [ 55] examined the sizes of the ﬂight corridors on offshore wind farms
and the lateral safety clearance for helicopter hoist operations at offshore wind turbines.
On the other hand, there are still no cases of adopting helicopters for the maintenance of
offshore wind farms in China.
4.2.3. Intelligence in O&M of Offshore Wind Farm
Several problems still exist in current offshore O&M, such as poor accessibility, incom-
plete condition monitoring and fault diagnosis functions, few professional O&M personnel,
and a shortage of O&M resources. Thus, it is necessary to manage the O&M plan and
time intelligently, and the development trend of operation and maintenance of offshore
wind farms is shown in Figure 7. Topics of research focus with respect to intelligent O&M
technology are drawn as following:
 Integrated information intelligent management: integrate information of wind turbine,
personnel, vessels management, meteorology, O&M tools, and spare parts manage-
ment, which supports the planning of various O&M tasks.
 Intelligent condition monitoring and fault diagnosis: Based on the intelligent condition
monitoring technology, intelligent online diagnosis, and prediction of faults, the
hidden dangers of wind turbines can be discovered and maintained in time, which
could greatly improve the work efﬁciency of the wind farm and reduce the O&M cost.
 Intelligent monitoring and operation optimization: Utilize data from various sensors,
such as wind farm meteorological data, grid power demand, wind turbine health
status, etc., to adjust the operation status of wind turbines in order to improve the
utilization rate of wind energy.
The safe operation of offshore wind turbines relies on sensors to continuously provide
reliable information such as turbine vibration and temperature of key components to diag-
nose the operating status of the wind turbine. At present, typical sensors used in offshore
wind turbines include wind, vibration, vibration switch, yaw position measurement, speed,
temperature and humidity, main control electric energy meter, lidar wind measurement,
tower clearance monitoring, strain, lightning current, inclination, etc.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 18 of 25
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 19 of 26 
 
  
Figure 7. Development trend of operation and ma intenance of offshore wind farms.  
4.3. Current Status in China 
China has accumulated a lot of construction  experience in large-scale OWP construc-
tion and has formed mature construction proc edures, especially for the construction of 
high-pile cap foundations. However, some key construction technologies still need to be 
developed for more complex marine constructi on environment, such as pile running con-
trolling, underwater grouting technology, an d anti-scouring technology. Currently, re-
search on offshore wind farm construction is mainly based on specific project practices, 
with a primary focus on construction sche me technology [43,56,57]. These studies sug-
gested that the construction concept of an of fshore wind farm should be adapted to the 
marine construction environment. Hydrogeological and meteorological information must 
be used to guide the selection of marine equi pment. The construction plan should be op-
timized by accounting for total equipment situation and effective window period. Im-
proving the installation efficiency is the main  trend in the development of offshore wind 
farm construction (Figure 8). The average instal lation time of a single wind turbine is ex-
pected to be shortened to within 2 days thro ugh integrated T&I, hoisting process optimi-
zation, construction resource scheduling op timization, meteorological monitoring, etc. 
 
Figure 8. Development trend of offshore wind farm construction. 
For offshore wind farm maintenance, Chin a still adopts manual and regular inspec-
tions, which have problems such as long periods, high costs, and high-security risks as Current status
Unmanned boat ：   
• Submarine terrain 
monitoring
• Cable status monitoring
• Pile foundation damage 
and attachment
UAV：
• Blade and tower damage
• Anomalous target
Sensor monitoring: 
Condition monitoringShip performance ：
• Low speed
• Ordinary loading capacity
• Poor seakeeping
• Unstable berthing capacityReal-time monitoring 
data of wind turbine, 
foundation, seabed, 
submarine, etc.
• Meteorological
• Wind resources
• Personnel
• Ships
• Materials
• Electricity marketAI algorithm 
optimization 
module
Comparison of 
multiple 
combinations
External  
informationData 
collection
Data 
processO&D 
module 
trainingCondition monitoring equipment 
demandsO&M data
Staff experience:• Low sailing rate
• High waterway risk 
• High boarding risk
• Poor comfortFeedback
Output
Lack of construction ship 
resources
Lack of integrated 
transportation and installationFuture trends of 
offshore wind power
Integrated transportation and 
installation
Construction resource sharing
Dedicated port for offshore 
wind powerLack of hoisting methods in 
high wind speed area
Farther and deeper offshore 
wind farm
Scattered offshore wind 
power projectsLarger single capacity 
offshore wind turbine Current status of 
offshore constructionFuture trends of 
offshore construction
Figure 7. Development trend of operation and maintenance of offshore wind farms.
4.3. Current Status in China
China has accumulated a lot of construction experience in large-scale OWP construc-
tion and has formed mature construction procedures, especially for the construction of
high-pile cap foundations. However, some key construction technologies still need to be
developed for more complex marine construction environment, such as pile running con-
trolling, underwater grouting technology, and anti-scouring technology. Currently, research
on offshore wind farm construction is mainly based on speciﬁc project practices, with
a primary focus on construction scheme technology [ 43,56,57]. These studies suggested
that the construction concept of an offshore wind farm should be adapted to the marine
construction environment. Hydrogeological and meteorological information must be used
to guide the selection of marine equipment. The construction plan should be optimized
by accounting for total equipment situation and effective window period. Improving
the installation efﬁciency is the main trend in the development of offshore wind farm
construction (Figure 8). The average installation time of a single wind turbine is expected
to be shortened to within 2 days through integrated T&I, hoisting process optimization,
construction resource scheduling optimization, meteorological monitoring, etc.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 19 of 26 
 
  
Figure 7. Development trend of operation and ma intenance of offshore wind farms.  
4.3. Current Status in China 
China has accumulated a lot of construction  experience in large-scale OWP construc-
tion and has formed mature construction proc edures, especially for the construction of 
high-pile cap foundations. However, some key construction technologies still need to be 
developed for more complex marine constructi on environment, such as pile running con-
trolling, underwater grouting technology, an d anti-scouring technology. Currently, re-
search on offshore wind farm construction is mainly based on specific project practices, 
with a primary focus on construction sche me technology [43,56,57]. These studies sug-
gested that the construction concept of an of fshore wind farm should be adapted to the 
marine construction environment. Hydrogeological and meteorological information must 
be used to guide the selection of marine equi pment. The construction plan should be op-
timized by accounting for total equipment situation and effective window period. Im-
proving the installation efficiency is the main  trend in the development of offshore wind 
farm construction (Figure 8). The average instal lation time of a single wind turbine is ex-
pected to be shortened to within 2 days thro ugh integrated T&I, hoisting process optimi-
zation, construction resource scheduling op timization, meteorological monitoring, etc. 
 
Figure 8. Development trend of offshore wind farm construction. 
For offshore wind farm maintenance, Chin a still adopts manual and regular inspec-
tions, which have problems such as long periods, high costs, and high-security risks as Current status
Unmanned boat ：   
• Submarine terrain 
monitoring
• Cable status monitoring
• Pile foundation damage 
and attachment
UAV：
• Blade and tower damage
• Anomalous target
Sensor monitoring: 
Condition monitoringShip performance ：
• Low speed
• Ordinary loading capacity
• Poor seakeeping
• Unstable berthing capacityReal-time monitoring 
data of wind turbine, 
foundation, seabed, 
submarine, etc.
• Meteorological
• Wind resources
• Personnel
• Ships
• Materials
• Electricity marketAI algorithm 
optimization 
module
Comparison of 
multiple 
combinations
External  
informationData 
collection
Data 
processO&D 
module 
trainingCondition monitoring equipment 
demandsO&M data
Staff experience:• Low sailing rate
• High waterway risk 
• High boarding risk
• Poor comfortFeedback
Output
Lack of construction ship 
resources
Lack of integrated 
transportation and installationFuture trends of 
offshore wind power
Integrated transportation and 
installation
Construction resource sharing
Dedicated port for offshore 
wind powerLack of hoisting methods in 
high wind speed area
Farther and deeper offshore 
wind farm
Scattered offshore wind 
power projectsLarger single capacity 
offshore wind turbine Current status of 
offshore constructionFuture trends of 
offshore construction
Figure 8. Development trend of offshore wind farm construction.
For offshore wind farm maintenance, China still adopts manual and regular inspec-
tions, which have problems such as long periods, high costs, and high-security risks as
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 19 of 25
offshore wind farms are far from the shore and have poor accessibility. Thus, uncrewed
intelligent inspection equipment and method for detecting wind turbines, infrastructure,
submarine cables, and sea conditions is currently a research hotspot for key operation and
maintenance equipment. At home and abroad, the developments of advanced equipment
are promoted, such as regional surveillance UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle), large-scale
uncrewed boat, and the underwater robot, mainly focusing on the key technologies such as
accurate positioning and attitude control, image recognition, and remote communication
of equipment in the complex marine environment so as to realize remote terrain change
analysis, cable condition monitoring analysis, pile foundation damage analysis, blade,
tower damage detection, sea surface abnormal target monitoring, etc. Currently, leading op-
erators and manufacturers in China are actively engaged in researching and applying O&M
management technology. Goldwind has developed iGO offshore wind farm intelligent
management system, which can establish ﬁles for each wind turbine and manage the full
life cycle information. By using machine learning, neural network, and other methods, the
failure models of key components were established to realize fault diagnosis and transform
from failure maintenance to early warning maintenance, and this reduces O&M costs by
15~20%.
Chinese businesses have kept developing new technologies in the sensor indus-
try. There are domestic manufacturers of the frequently used sensor types speciﬁed in
Section 4.2.3 . For some speciﬁc scenarios with higher requirements for the accuracy and
reliability of the sensor itself, manufacturers will prefer to use imported brands to assure the
accuracy and stability of data collection. It can be seen that domestically produced middle-
and low-end sensors for wind turbines have no technical issues and are quite competitive
on the market, but they are high-end sensors that are lagging behind in terms of technology.
In light of the development trend of wind turbine sensors, it is advised to conduct research
and development on customized and domestic sensors, edge computing, the Internet of
Things (IoT), and intelligent monitoring platforms. After that, domestic high-precision new
MEMS (Microelectro Mechanical Systems) sensors, sensor edge computing algorithms and
equipment, and ﬁnally a wind turbine intelligent sensing condition monitoring platform
can be developed.
5. Research and Development of OWP in China
5.1. China’s R&D Efforts in Offshore Wind Industry
From 2010 to 2020, the SCI database collected 7573 articles in OWP (search term:
offshore wind), including 1485 articles published by Chinese scholars. Figure 9 shows that
the articles by Chinese scholars both increased in quantity and percentage, at a peak of
391 articles or 30.6% in 2020. Research focuses include wind resource assessment, blade
design, monitoring technology, structural dynamic response analysis, integrated design,
etc., demonstrating China’s efforts in exploration and innovation in these aspects. China’s
inﬂuence and international academic standing in the OWP industry have grown.
China has made advanced achievements in the wind power industry, such as control
technology, large-scale wind turbine design, coordinated control technology of wind farm
clusters, and friendly grid connection of wind power. Other technologies such as offshore
engineering equipment and high voltage ﬂexible DC transmission are also in tremendous
progress. From 2016 to 2020, the National Natural Science Foundation of China has
funded 73 projects related to OWP , which is over four times higher than that during
between 2012 and 2016. Table 2 summarize the key technologies developed in China from
2010 to 2020. These research projects and the national R&D plan mainly focus on the
R&D and testing technology of large-capacity offshore wind turbines, support structure
optimization, ﬂoating structure design, offshore wind farm group planning, friendly grid
connection technology, OWP intelligent operation, and maintenance technology, etc. As
the investments of the state, developers, enterprises, and universities put into the OWP
industry are increasing yearly, the related theoretical and achievements and technologies
will also show a good growth trend.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 20 of 25
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 21 of 26 
 
 investments of the state, developers, enterprises, and universities put into the OWP in-
dustry are increasing yearly, the related th eoretical and achievements and technologies 
will also show a good growth trend. 
 
Figure 9. Chinese scholar articles collected in the SCI database. 
Table 2. Key technologies for wind power de veloped in China from 2010 to 2020. 
 Technology Technical Points Research 
Projects 
[58] National 
R&D Importance 
1 Refined assess-
ment of offshore 
wind resources • Wind resources analysis 
• Wind turbine layout optimiza-
tion 3  Important 
2 Floating founda-
tion 
design • Mooring systems 
• Dynamic cables 
• Integrated analysis of floating 
structures 12  Very im-
portant 
3 Intelligent opera-
tion and mainte-
nance • Condition monitoring and fault 
diagnosis 
• Intelligent decision-making 
method 
• Operation optimization of wind 
farm 8  Very im-
portant 
4 Structural design • Structural dynamic response 
• Foundation design 
• Integrated design of wind tur-
bine and foundation 49  Extremely  
important 
5 Generator design • Permanent magnet synchro-
nous generator 
• Large bearings 
• High power density converter 8 3 Very im-
portant 
6 Blade design • Lightweight blade material 3 1 Important 1630 374775 80132167204306391
6.75%8.88% 10.16%
9.44%13.02%
12.10%17.35%20.19%21.56%28.13%30.62%
0.00%5.00%10.00%15.00%20.00%25.00%30.00%35.00%40.00%
0100200300400500600
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Proportion  of papersNumber of papers
YearSCI database
SCI database
Figure 9. Chinese scholar articles collected in the SCI database.
5.2. Standardization of OWP in China
Since the late 1980s, the IEC/TC88 Technical Committee has begun to organize the
preparation of international standards for wind turbines. IEC published the ﬁrst offshore
wind turbine standard in 2009. IEC regularly updates original standards and adds new
standards based on the application of standards and the growth of the wind power industry.
Currently, major OWP markets such as Denmark, Germany, and the UK use the IEC 61400
series wind turbine standards, which include wind turbine design requirements, blade
testing, power characteristic testing, load measurement, etc. They have combined IEC 61400
with their national standards to further optimize and supplement their national standards.
The National Standardization Management Committee in China published the con-
struction speciﬁcations for OWP projects in 2010 and outlined technical requirements for
construction, transportation, infrastructure requirements, power generation equipment
installation and project management, etc. The ﬁrst national standard for offshore wind
farms (GB/T 51308-2019), published by China Energy Construction Group Planning and
Design Co., Ltd., has been in effect since 1 October 2019, following nearly ten years of
development. Regarding the OWP certiﬁcation system, the construction of the testing
and certiﬁcation system for OWP equipment has always been highly valued as a crucial
component of quality assurance in Denmark and Germany, and relevant standards such as
IEC WT01 are set for certiﬁcation. However, China still needs to establish a complete set of
“technology R&D, testing certiﬁcation, manufacturing, operation feedback” systems [59].
China should promote the creation of national standards that reﬂect local regional
conditions and enhance the testing and certiﬁcation process. Meanwhile, China needs to
actively engage in the creation of international OWP standards to integrate its standards
with those of other countries and lead the development of OWP globally.
5.3. Parity Process of China’s Offshore Wind Industry
China’s OWP pricing has experienced the approved-price stage from 2008 to 2014.
Since then, a number of government bodies have announced numerous new pricing rules
in conjunction with the revival of the OWP business. The newly approved OWP guidance
price was changed to 0.8 yuan per kWh in 2019 and to 0.75 yuan per kWh in 2020. This
price is part of the annual management of ﬁnancial subsidies. China’s OWP has entered the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 21 of 25
competitive age of bidding with the determination of the feed-in tariff for newly approved
OWP projects, which shall not be higher than the above guidance price.
Table 2. Key technologies for wind power developed in China from 2010 to 2020.
Technology Technical PointsResearch
Projects [58]National
R&DImportance
1Reﬁned assessment of offshore
wind resources Wind resources analysis
 Wind turbine layout
optimization3 Important
2Floating foundation
design Mooring systems
 Dynamic cables
 Integrated analysis of ﬂoating
structures12 Very important
3Intelligent operation and
maintenance Condition monitoring and
fault diagnosis
 Intelligent decision-making
method
 Operation optimization of
wind farm8 Very important
4 Structural design Structural dynamic response
 Foundation design
 Integrated design of wind
turbine and foundation49 Extremely important
5 Generator design Permanent magnet
synchronous generator
 Large bearings
 High power density converter8 3 Very important
6 Blade design Lightweight blade material
 Management optimization of
blade materials
 Coupling of blade and pitch
system3 1 Important
7 Power system Flexible DC transmission
 System stability analysis
 System control technology22 2 Extremely important
8 Engineering geological survey  Advanced geotechnical test 0 Important
9 Construction technology Construction safety
 Construction equipment
manufacturing1 1 Important
In January 2020, the government issued “several opinions on promoting the healthy
development of non-hydropower renewable energy power generation”, which clearly
pointed out that new OWP projects will not be eligible for national ﬁnancial subsidies from
2020; instead, local governments will provide support. Offshore wind farm projects that
have been approved (put on record) according to regulations or have all wind turbines
connected to the grid before 31 December 2021 will be incorporated into the national
ﬁnancial subsidies in accordance with the corresponding price policy. However, per the
status quo and existing industrial development policies, China’s OWP will obtain no
subsidies after 2025. This legislative change will speed up China’s transition to parity in
the offshore wind sector and provide signiﬁcant obstacles for the overall sector. To ensure
the healthy development of China’s OWP , it is crucial to ﬁgure out how to obtain local
government subsidies and quicken technology advancements to attain parity.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 22 of 25
5.4. Future Development of China’s Offshore Wind Industry
Thanks to independent innovation and references from the experience of global OWP
development, China has steadily realized the autonomy of technology, and its OWP de-
velopment intensity has surpassed that of the rest of the world. Even though China is
making technological strides, some crucial technologies, such as large-capacity wind tur-
bine manufacturing, ﬂoating structure design, and OWP hydrogen production technology,
are still behind some other countries. The following technologies are important to achieve
signiﬁcant cost reduction: (1) accurate analysis and optimal utilization of wind resource ex-
ploitation; (2) customized wind farm development and wind turbine; (3) integrated design
of (ﬂoating) large-capacity wind turbines; (4) integration of OWP system; (5) intelligent
construction and O&M in the full life cycle.
Full life cycle asset management is one of the practical solutions for intelligent construc-
tion and O&M. The characteristics of offshore wind farm assets include poor accessibility,
strong correlation, high operation and maintenance costs, and long operating life. Based
on the management concept of asset-centered full life cycle, closed-loop, feedback, and
intelligent management, the OWP enterprises should develop an asset management tool
and conﬁrm the project asset management goals and index systems, along with WBS (Work
Breakdown Structure) and CBS (Cost Breakdown Structure), in order to build an offshore
wind project ABS (Asset Breakdown Structure). The ABS decomposes the work tasks of
assets of each full life cycle stage into a minimum work unit that can be evaluated, with
schedule plan, resource requirement, cost budget, and risk management plan, ensuring the
practical implementation of asset management in the entire life cycle of OWP projects. By
using the ABS-WBS-CBS coupling structure, managers could integrate the work task effects
of each stage to evaluate the performance of assets via earned value analysis, net present
value bias analysis, and risk analysis so as to optimize the asset management decision and
enhance the capacity for asset value creation.
6. Conclusions
The key technologies for offshore wind farms, including site selection, design, con-
struction, and O&M in China, are reviewed in this study. The challenges are examined
based on the projects that are currently under construction and those that are planned. Sug-
gestions are made for future development in China. The state-of-the art methods for wind
energy resource assessment, site surveying, and environmental protection technologies are
summarized. Currently, China is conducting research and building demonstration projects
to optimize wind turbine layouts considering typhoons and to explore marine resources
comprehensively. With the limited site survey, extra consideration must be given to the
selection or development of marine geological survey methods for superior geological
information for trustworthy design and safe construction.
Aiming to construct large-scale wind turbines, China has developed the capability of
manufacturing 5 MW offshore wind turbines and will continue to study the manufacturing
technology for essential components of 10 MW+ PMSG wind turbines, such as high-
performance bearings, IGBT, and high-end sensors. Additionally, as the exploration of
OWP approaches into deeper seabed, China is preparing the commercialization of ﬂoating
structures and ﬂexible DC transmission technology for the next boom in OWP .
After the fast growth before 2022, China has won great construction achievements.
However, the shortage of equipment resources limits the efﬁciency improvement of con-
struction and O&M. More professional vessels and equipment are expected to be used for
offshore wind farm projects in the near future, which will prolong the construction window
period and improve the safety and efﬁciency of construction. Advanced equipment will
also promote O&M from the traditional into the intelligent mode.
Although China’s OWP industry has made great strides in lowering costs and im-
proving the power generation efﬁciency of OWP projects, challenging marine conditions
(typhoons, earthquakes, ice, deep soft soils, etc.) and COVID-19 cause additional difﬁculties
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 23 of 25
to this sector. Government support and direction are essential during such a unique time,
from planning to technological advancements and demonstrations.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Q.F. and P .L.; formal analysis, X.W. investigation, X.W.;
resources, Q.F. and P .L.; writing, review and editing, X.W., J.Y., Q.F. and P .L.; supervision, Q.F., P .L.
and J.Y.; project administration, X.L. and H.H. All authors have read and agreed to the published
version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by China Huaneng Group Co., Ltd., under grant number HNKJ19-
H16, HNKJ20-H53, and the Fund Program of State Key Laboratory of Hydroscience and Engineering,
under grant number 2022-KY-05.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Only public data duly referenced are used in the present study.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. EMBER. World Electricity Generation by Source. Available online: https://ember-climate.org/data/data-explorer/ (accessed on
5 May 2022).
2. GWEC. Global Wind Report 2020 ; Global Wind Energy Council: Brussels, Belgium, 2021.
3. Vetter, D. China Built More Offshore Wind in 2021 Than Every Other Country Built in 5 Years. Available online:
https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidrvetter/2022/01/26/china-built-more-offshore-wind-in-2021-than-every-other-
country-built-in-5-years/?sh=6c9022054634 (accessed on 5 May 2022).
4. Musial, W.; Ram, B. Large-Scale Offshore Wind Power in the United States: Assessment of Opportunities and Barriers ; National
Renewable Energy Laboratory: Golden, CO, USA, 2010.
5. Adams, N.; Stein, D. Results and Findings of a Floating LIDAR Trial in the Irish Sea ; The European Wind Energy Association: Messe
Frankfurt, Germany, 2013.
6. Gottschall, J.; Gribben, B.; Stein, D.; Würth, I. Floating lidar as an advanced offshore wind speed measurement technique: Current
technology status and gap analysis in regard to full maturity. Wiley Interdiscip. Rev. Energy Environ. 2017 ,6, e250.1–e250.23.
[CrossRef]
7. Jiang, D.; Zhuang, D.; Huang, Y.; Wang, J.; Fu, J. Evaluating the spatio-temporal variation of China0s offshore wind resources
based on remotely sensed wind ﬁeld data. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2013 ,24, 142–148. [CrossRef]
8. Li, Z.; Zhu, R.; He, X.; Zhang, D. Study on the assessment technology of wind energy resource. Acta Meteorol. Sin. 2007 ,5,
708–717.
9. Manwell, J.F.; Rogers, A.L.; McGowan, J.G.; Bailey, B.H. An offshore wind resource assessment study for New England. Renew.
Energy 2002 ,27, 175–187. [CrossRef]
10. Zhou, R.; He, X.; Zhu, R.; Cheng, X. Numerical simulation of the development potential of wind energy resources over China0s
offshore areas. Resour. Sci. 2010 ,32, 1434–1443.
11. Katic, I.; Højstrup, J.; Jensen, N.O. A simple model for cluster efﬁciency. In Proceedings of the European Wind Energy Association
Conference and Exhibition, Rome, Italy, 7–9 October 1986; pp. 407–410.
12. Ott, A.; Berg, J.; Nielsen, M. Linearised CFD Models for Wakes ; Danmarks Tekniske Universitet, Risø Nationallaboratoriet for
Bæredygtig Energi: Roskilde, Denmark, 2011.
13. Ainslie, J.F. Development of an eddy viscosity model for wind turbine wakes. In Proceedings of the 7th British Wind Energy
Association Conference, Oxford, UK, 27–29 March 1985.
14. Gao, X.; Yang, H.; Lin, L.; Prentice, K. Wind turbine layout optimization using multi-population genetic algorithm and a case
study in Hong Kong offshore. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerod. 2015 ,139, 89–99. [CrossRef]
15. Pillai, A.C.; Chick, J.; Khorasanchi, M.; Barbouchi, S.; Johanning, L. Application of an offshore wind farm layout optimization
methodology at Middelgrunden wind farm. Ocean. Eng. 2017 ,139, 287–297. [CrossRef]
16. Sun, H.; Yang, H.; Gao, X. Investigation into spacing restriction and layout optimization of wind farm with multiple types of
wind turbines. Energy 2019 ,168, 637–650. [CrossRef]
17. Drewitt, A.L.; Langston, R.H.W. Assessing the impacts of wind farms on birds. IBIS 2006 ,148, 19–42. [CrossRef]
18. Furness, R.W.; Wade, H.M.; Masden, E.A. Assessing vulnerability of marine bird populations to offshore wind farms. J. Environ.
Manag. 2013 ,119, 56–66. [CrossRef]
19. Peterson, I.K.; Fox, A.D. Changes in Bird Habitat Utilisation around the Horns Rev 1 Offshore Wind Farm, with Particular Emphasis on
Common Scoter ; National Environmental Research Institute: Aarhus, Denmark, 2007.
20. Shi, B.; Ding, L.; Xu, L.; Hu, W.; Zheng, L. Inﬂuence of Donghai Bridge offshore wind farm on bird composition. Chin. J. Ecol.
2014 ,33, 1068–1075. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 24 of 25
21. Su, W.; Wu, N.; Zhang, L. A review of research on the effect of offshore wind power project on marine organisms. Mar. Sci. Bull.
2020 ,38, 291–299.
22. Bergström, L.; Sundqvist, F.; Bergström, U. Effects of an offshore wind farm on temporal and spatial patterns in the demersal ﬁsh
community. Mar. Ecol. Prog. Ser. 2013 ,485, 199–210. [CrossRef]
23. Scheidat, M.; Tougaard, J.; Brasseur, S. Harbour porpoises ( Phocoena phocoena ) and wind farms: A case study in the Dutch North
sea. Environ. Res. Lett. 2011 ,6, 25102–25111. [CrossRef]
24. Antonio, C.S.; Javier, P .P .; David, B.D.; Carlos, D.R. Offshore wind energy: A review of the current status, challenges and future
development in Spain. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,64, 1–18. [CrossRef]
25. wind-turbine-models.com. The Latest Wind Turbines in Our Database. Available online: https://www.wind-turbine-models.
com/ (accessed on 20 November 2021).
26. Yu, W. Investigation on Smart Load Control for a Large-Scale Wind Turbines Using Deformable Trailing Edge Flap. Master0s
Thesis, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China, 2013.
27. Cheng, S. Research on Pitch Control Technology of Large Wind Turbine. Master0s Thesis, Shanghai Dianji University, Shanghai,
China, 2017.
28. Shen, X.; Du, W. Expectation and review of control strategy of large wind turbines yaw system. Trans. China Electrotech. Soc. 2015 ,
30, 196–203. [CrossRef]
29. Fu, Z.; Yuan, Y. Status and prospects on condition monitoring technologies of offshore wind turbine. Autom. Electr. Power Syst.
2012 ,36, 121–129. [CrossRef]
30. Yang, W.; Tavner, P .J.; Crabtree, C.; Feng, Y.; Qiu, Y. Wind turbine condition monitoring: Technical and commercial challenges.
Wind Energy 2014 ,17, 673–693. [CrossRef]
31. Abdelbaky, M.A.; Liu, X.; Kong, X.; IEEE. Wind Turbines Pitch Controller using Constrained Fuzzy-Receding Horizon Control. In
Proceedings of the 31st Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC), Nanchang, China, 3–5 June 2019; pp. 236–241.
32. Sierra-Garcia, J.E.; Santos, M. Improving Wind Turbine Pitch Control by Effective Wind Neuro-Estimators. IEEE Access 2021 ,9,
10413–10425. [CrossRef]
33. Pérez-Collazo, C.; Greaves, D.; Iglesias, G. A review of combined wave and offshore wind energy. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.
2015 ,42, 141–153. [CrossRef]
34. Niu, X.; Yu, X. An analytic solution for combined wave diffraction and refraction around a vertical cylinder with idealized scour
pit.Coast Eng. 2012 ,67, 80–87. [CrossRef]
35. Prendergast, L.J.; Gavin, K.; Doherty, P . An investigation into the effect of scour on the natural frequency of an offshore wind
turbine. Ocean Eng. 2015 ,101, 1–11. [CrossRef]
36. Guo, Y.; Gao, H.; Wu, Q.; Zhao, H.; Østergaard, J.; Shahidehpour, M. Enhanced voltage control of VSC-HVDC-Connected offshore
wind farms based on model predictive control. IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy 2018 ,9, 1949–3029. [CrossRef]
37. Li, Y.; Xu, Z.; Østergaard, J.; Hill, D.J. Coordinated control strategies for offshore wind farm integration via VSC-HVDC for
system frequency support. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2017 ,32, 843–856. [CrossRef]
38. Liang, J.; Jing, T.; Gomis-Bellmunt, O.; Ekanayake, J.; Jenkins, N. Operation and control of multiterminal HVDC transmission for
offshore wind farms. IEEE Trans. Power Deliv. 2011 ,26, 2596–2604. [CrossRef]
39. Yu, Y. Research on VSC-HVDC for Grid Integration for Wind Power. Master’s Thesis, Nanjing University of Science & Technology,
Nanjing, China, 2016.
40. Zou, C.; Wei, R.; Feng, J.; Zhou, Y. Development status and application prospect of VSC-HVDC. South. Power Syst. Technol. 2022 ,
16, 1–7.
41. Zhai, E.; Zhang, X.; Li, R. Integration design of offshore wind tower and foundation. South. Energy Constr. 2018 ,5, 1–7. [CrossRef]
42. Niu, X. Conditions for the occurrence of notable edge waves due to atmospheric disturbances. Appl. Ocean. Res. 2020 ,101, 102255.
[CrossRef]
43. Liu, Z.; Liu, X.; Sun, D.; Lin, C.; Feng, K. Analysis of offshore wind installation technology and equipment development situation.
Ship Eng. 2015 ,37, 1–4. [CrossRef]
44. Besnard, F.; Patriksson, M.; Strömberg, A.B.; Wojciechowski, A.; Bertling, L. An optimization framework for opportunistic
maintenance of offshore wind power system. In Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE Bucharest PowerTech, Bucharest, Romania, 28
June–2 July 2009; pp. 1–7.
45. Hofmann, M.; Sperstad, I.B. NOWIcob—A tool for reducing the maintenance costs of offshore wind farms. Energy Procedia 2013 ,
35, 177–186. [CrossRef]
46. Sahnoun, M.; Baudry, D.; Mustafee, N.; Louis, A.; Smart, P .A.; Godsiff, P .; Mazari, B. Modelling and simulation of operation and
maintenance strategy for offshore wind farms based on multi-agent system. J. Intell. Manuf. 2015 ,30, 2981–2997. [CrossRef]
47. Hinrichs, H. Condition monitoring based maintenance strategies for operating offshore wind farms. In Proceedings of the Sixth
International Workshop on Large-Scale Integration of Wind Power and Transmission Networks for Offshore Wind Farms, Delft,
The Netherlands, 1 July 2006; pp. 95–98.
48. Igba, J.; Alemzadeh, K.; Anyanwu-Ebo, I.; Gibbons, P .; Friis, J. A systems approach towards reliability-centred maintenance
(RCM) of wind turbine. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2013 ,16, 814–823. [CrossRef]
49. Pattison, D.; Segovia Garcia, M.; Xie, W.; Quail, F.; Revie, M.; Whitﬁeld, R.I.; Irvine, I. Intelligent integrated maintenance for wind
power generation. Wind Energy 2015 ,19, 547–562. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929 25 of 25
50. Du, M.; Yi, J.; Guo, J.; Cheng, L.; Ma, S.; He, Q. Review on reliability centred maintenance strategy and applications to offshore
wind farm operation and maintenance. Power Syst. Technol. 2017 ,41, 2247–2254.
51. Besnard, F.; Patriksson, M.; Strömberg, A.B.; Wojciechowski, A.; Fischer, K.; Bertling, L. A stochastic model for opportunistic
maintenance planning of offshore wind farms. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE Trondheim PowerTech, Trondheim, Norway,
19–23 June 2011; pp. 1–8.
52. Dai, L.; Stålhane, M.; Utne, I.B. Routing and Scheduling of Maintenance Fleet for Offshore Wind Farms. Wind Eng. 2015 ,39, 15–30.
[CrossRef]
53. Zheng, X.; Ye, C.; Fu, Y. Research and development of operation and maintenance for offshore wind farms. Power Syst. Clean
Energy 2012 ,28, 90–94.
54. Silva, N.; Estanqueiro, A. Impact of Weather Conditions on the Windows of Opportunity for Operation of Offshore Wind Farms
in Portugal. Wind Eng. 2013 ,37, 257–268. [CrossRef]
55. Strbac, A.; Greiwe, D.H.; Hoffmann, F.; Cormier, M.; Lutz, T. Piloted Simulation of the Rotorcraft Wind Turbine Wake Interaction
during Hover and Transit Flights. Energies 2022 ,15, 1790. [CrossRef]
56. Hu, L.; Qian, J.; Wu, L. Construction of experimental offshore wind power plant. Eng. J. Wuhan Univ. 2013 ,46, 319–323.
57. Wan, W. Study on transportation and installation mode for offshore wind turbines. Ship Eng. 2011 ,33, 81–84. [CrossRef]
58. National Natural Science Foundation of China. National Natural Science Foundation of China Big Data Knowledge Management
Service Portal. Available online: https://kd.nsfc.gov.cn/ﬁnalProjectInit (accessed on 20 November 2021).
59. Cao, Y.; Tu, L.; Nie, J.; Zhou, Y. European experience on standardization of offshore wind power and its enlightenment to China.
South. Power Syst. Technol. 2019 ,13, 3–11. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
