Citation: She, J.; Blauw, A.; Laakso,
L.; Mourre, B.; Schulz-Stellenﬂeth, J.;
Wehde, H. Fit-for-Purpose
Information for Offshore Wind
Farming Applications—Part-I:
Identiﬁcation of Needs and Solutions.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630.
https://doi.org/10.3390/jmse11081630
Academic Editors: Guillaume
Charria and Alain Lefebvre
Received: 30 June 2023
Revised: 6 August 2023
Accepted: 11 August 2023
Published: 21 August 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
Journal of
Marine Science 
and Engineering
Article
Fit-for-Purpose Information for Offshore Wind Farming
Applications—Part-I: Identiﬁcation of Needs and Solutions
Jun She1,*
, Anouk Blauw2, Lauri Laakso3,4, Baptiste Mourre5, Johannes Schulz-Stellenﬂeth6
and Henning Wehde7
1Danish Meteorological Institute, Lyngbyvej 100, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark
2Deltares, P .O. Box 177, 2600 MH Delft, The Netherlands; anouk.blauw@deltares.nl
3Finnish Meteorological Institute, Erik Palmenin aukio 1, 00560 Helsinki, Finland; lauri.laakso@fmi.ﬁ
4Atmospheric Chemistry Research Group, Chemical Resource Beneﬁciation, North-West University,
Potchefstroom 2520, South Africa
5Balearic Islands Coastal Observing and Forecasting System (SOCIB), 07121 Palma, Spain; bmourre@socib.es
6Helmholtz-Zentrum Hereon, Max-Planck-Str. 1, 21502 Geesthacht, Germany;
johannes.schulz-stellenﬂeth@hereon.de
7Institute of Marine Research, P .O. Box 1870, Nordnes, NO-5817 Bergen, Norway; henning.wehde@hi.no
*Correspondence: js@dmi.dk
Abstract: The rapid expansion of offshore wind farms (OWFs) in European seas is accompanied
by many challenges, including efﬁcient and safe operation and maintenance, environmental pro-
tection, and biodiversity conservation. Effective decision-making for industry and environmental
agencies relies on timely, multi-disciplinary marine data to assess the current state and predict the
future state of the marine system. Due to high connectivity in space (land–estuarial–coastal sea),
socioeconomic (multi-sectoral and cross-board), and environmental and ecological processes in sea
areas containing OWFs, marine observations should be ﬁt for purpose in relation to multiple OWF
applications. This study represents an effort to map the major observation requirements (Part-I),
identify observation gaps, and recommend solutions to ﬁll those gaps (Part-II) in order to address
multi-dimension challenges for the OWF industry. In Part-I, six targeted areas are selected, including
OWF operation and maintenance, protection of submarine cables, wake and lee effects, transport
and security, contamination, and ecological impact assessments. For each application area, key
information products are identiﬁed, and integrated modeling–monitoring solutions for generating
the information products are proposed based on current state-of-the-art methods. The observation
requirements for these solutions, in terms of variables and spatial and temporal sampling needs, are
therefore identiﬁed.
Keywords: spatial connectivity; observation requirements for ocean renewable energy; monitoring
in land–sea continuum; integrated monitoring-modeling; multi-scale processes
1. Introduction
1.1. Offshore Wind Farm and Connectivity: Signiﬁcance and Complexity
In Europe, as is the case globally, there is a need to reduce the use of fossil fuels and
replace them with climate-neutral alternatives. In coastal areas, the most rapidly increasing
form of new energy is offshore wind energy.
The large spectrum of industrial and research activities concerning OWF is driven by
ambitious goals towards climate neutrality, as deﬁned by the European Green Deal. The
pressure to rapidly advance OWF technology is further ampliﬁed by the recent energy
crisis. Wind Europe envisions 450 GW of offshore wind energy generation by 2050 [ 1].
Although major OWF operations have taken place in the northern European seas (up to
380 GW), there are also planned OWFs in the Mediterranean and Black Seas (Figure 1).
More than 26 GW of this energy production is envisioned to take place in northern Baltic
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630. https://doi.org/10.3390/jmse11081630 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jmse
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 2 of 23
Sea areas with annual wintertime sea ice cover. Planning an OWF in cold areas differs from
ice-free regions in many respects, and this requires speciﬁc observations, including the
properties and dynamics of sea ice and icing of structures [ 2]. The icing of structures also
causes signiﬁcant risks for maintenance personnel during the winter period and directly
impacts production due to the icing of blades.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 2 of 24 
 
 More than 26 GW of this energy production is  envisioned to take place in northern Baltic 
Sea areas with annual wintertime sea ice cover. Planning an OWF in cold areas di ﬀers 
from ice-free regions in many respects, and this requires speci ﬁc observations, including 
the properties and dynamics of sea ice and icing of structures [2]. The icing of structures 
also causes signi ﬁcant risks for maintenance personnel during the winter period and di-
rectly impacts production due to the icing of blades. 
 
Figure 1. Map of existing and planned OWFs in Europe an coastal seas (source: EMODnet.eu, ac-
cessed on 8 June 2023). 
The OWF industry involves several di ﬀerent sectors, and the value chain of the OWF 
industry can be divided into four phases: th e development phase (4–6 years), the construc-
tion phase (2–4 years), the operation phase (u p to 20 years), and the deconstruction phase. 
During the development phase, the site must be optimally designed so that the farm will 
demonstrate both high power productivity and safety at a relatively low cost and that it 
will meet environmental protection requirem ents. During the follo wing phases, marine 
forecasts are required for the construction, operation, and maintenance of OWFs. Obser-
vations on-site and nearby will be needed concerning air, seawater, seabed, and biota to 
support both short-term operations and lo ng-term planning and impact assessment. 
OWF applications both a ﬀect and are a ﬀected by several natural and socioeconomic 
players, between which there is high connect ivity. There are two major connectivity as-
pects to be considered: in space, the OWF s are located in shallow water areas with high 
land–coast–o ﬀshore connectivity (Figure 2); in processes, OWF applications are featured 
with physical–biogeochemical–ecological–socioeconomic connectivity (Figure 3) [3–5]. 
Spatial connectivity is of high relevance to OWF for several reasons (Figure 2): 
• Most OWFs are located in the transition zone between the oceanic and land atmos-
pheric boundary layer [6], where a complex transformation process (including the 
Figure 1. Map of existing and planned OWFs in European coastal seas (source: EMODnet.eu, accessed
on 8 June 2023).
The OWF industry involves several different sectors, and the value chain of the
OWF industry can be divided into four phases: the development phase (4–6 years), the
construction phase (2–4 years), the operation phase (up to 20 years), and the deconstruction
phase. During the development phase, the site must be optimally designed so that the
farm will demonstrate both high power productivity and safety at a relatively low cost
and that it will meet environmental protection requirements. During the following phases,
marine forecasts are required for the construction, operation, and maintenance of OWFs.
Observations on-site and nearby will be needed concerning air, seawater, seabed, and biota
to support both short-term operations and long-term planning and impact assessment.
OWF applications both affect and are affected by several natural and socioeconomic
players, between which there is high connectivity. There are two major connectivity aspects
to be considered: in space, the OWFs are located in shallow water areas with high land–
coast–offshore connectivity (Figure 2); in processes, OWF applications are featured with
physical–biogeochemical–ecological–socioeconomic connectivity (Figure 3) [ 3–5]. Spatial
connectivity is of high relevance to OWF for several reasons (Figure 2):
 Most OWFs are located in the transition zone between the oceanic and land atmo-
spheric boundary layer [ 6], where a complex transformation process (including the
formation of an intermediate boundary layer (IBL)) takes place, which is conditioned
by different ocean processes, e.g., ocean waves and water temperatures.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 3 of 23
 OWFs are known to potentially add to the connectivity between different ecological
habitats by serving as a habitat themselves. The fact that OWF areas are declared as
no-ﬁshing zones plays an important role in this context as well.
 With the growing number and size of OWF installations, the respective impacts
on the environment will take place on larger scales and thus contribute to regional
connectivity. This concerns the release and drift of substances as much as the impacts
on momentum and heat ﬂuxes between the ocean and the atmosphere.
 Sea cables are required to connect OWFs to land, and this comes with several chal-
lenges, e.g., related to morphodynamic processes or heating of the sea ﬂoor.
 Artiﬁcial islands are a recent development leading to new requirements concerning
observations and modeling.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 24 
 
 formation of an intermediate boundary laye r (IBL)) takes place, which is conditioned 
by diﬀerent ocean processes, e.g., ocean waves and water temperatures. 
• OWFs are known to potentially add to the connectivity between di ﬀerent ecological 
habitats by serving as a habitat themselves . The fact that OWF areas are declared as 
no-ﬁshing zones plays an important role in this context as well. 
• With the growing number and size of OWF installations, the respective impacts on 
the environment will take place on larger sc ales and thus contribute to regional con-
nectivity. This concerns the release and drift  of substances as much as the impacts on 
momentum and heat ﬂuxes between the ocean and the atmosphere. 
• Sea cables are required to connect OWFs to land, and this comes with several chal-
lenges, e.g., related to morphodynami c processes or heating of the sea ﬂoor. 
• Artiﬁcial islands are a recent development le ading to new requirements concerning 
observations and modeling. 
 
Figure 2. Spatial connectivity relations in o ﬀshore wind farm sector. 
The impacts of OWFs on the environment co ver a large spectrum of physical, chem-
ical, and ecological system components. With the ongoing growth of installations, short-
term operational aspects (e.g., shadowing of one wind farm by another wind farm) must 
be considered, as well as long-term impacts on ecological systems. The OWF topic is par-
ticularly challenging with respect to the information required concerning the multi-scale 
processes in the ocean/atmosphere boundary layer and marine ecosystems, as shown in 
Figure 3. 
Figure 2. Spatial connectivity relations in offshore wind farm sector.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 24 
 
  
Figure 3. Connectivity represented by interactive proce sses in the physical–ecological–social sys-
tems and their non-local impacts. 
1.2. Observation Requirements and Gap Analysis for OWF  
To improve the safety and e ﬃciency of the OWF business, a data-driven approach 
has been adopted by the OWF industry. The digital information for supporting OWF busi-
ness is generated by monitoring and modeling technologies. A set of monitoring platforms 
has been applied [7], e.g., gr ab and sampling, epi-benthic beam trawling, and drop down 
video (DDV) for benthic surveys; beam trawls, o tter trawls, lobster pots, gill nets, plankton 
nets, or local ﬁshing vessels for ﬁshery and shell ﬁsh surveys; boat-based and digital aerial 
surveys, GPS tracking, and radar and coastal vantage point (VP) surveys for ornithological 
environmental surveys; visual surveys, static  and towed acoustic monitoring, tagging of 
individuals with satellite transmi tters, and remotely controlled video monitoring for ma-
rine mammal environmental surveys; me t mast, wave buoys, current meters, ( ﬂoating) 
lidar for resource assessment, and metocean monitoring; seismic methods, echo sounding, magnetometry, and acoustic seismic pro ﬁling for geophysical surveys; vibrocores, bore-
holes with soil/rock sampling, and cone penetration testing (CPT) for geotechnical sur-
veys; supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA), remotely-operated vehicles 
(ROVs), autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs), and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs, 
mostly multi-rotor copter drones equipped wi th a digital, thermographic camera) for op-
eration and maintenance (inspection, repair) monitoring. Emerging cost-e ﬀective technol-
ogies such as ferrybox, HF radar [8], and LoRa (long range)-based wireless sensor net-
works for monitoring the quality of water in coastal areas [9,10] can also be deployed in coastal areas to provide a signi ﬁcant amount of high-resolut ion observations for OWF ap-
plications. The la tter provides a basis for using the Internet of Things (IoT) in marine mon-
itoring for OWF applications.  
In addition to the integrated use of monito ring platforms, monitoring strategies, in-
cluding observation requirements, data adequa cy, and sampling strategies for the entire 
OWF value chain, have also become an important issue as they may signi ﬁcantly reduce 
the cost and risks of the implementation an d operation of OWFs. A summary of observa-
tion requirements was provided in an OWF guide report by The Crown Estate and the 
Oﬀshore Renewable Energy Catapult in 2019 [7 ]. A summary is provi ded in Tables S1–S3, 
including surveys on geophysics, ge otechnology, hydrography, benthic, ﬁsh and shell ﬁsh, 
habitat, birds, marine mammals, and huma n impacts; monitoring for resource and 
metocean assessment, data requirements for weather forecasting, metocean conditions, 
data for corrosion protection, scour protection, o ﬀshore cable installation and protection, 
operation, maintenance and condition moni toring, and decommissioning. However, the 
Figure 3. Connectivity represented by interactive processes in the physical–ecological–social systems
and their non-local impacts.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 4 of 23
The impacts of OWFs on the environment cover a large spectrum of physical, chemical,
and ecological system components. With the ongoing growth of installations, short-term
operational aspects (e.g., shadowing of one wind farm by another wind farm) must be con-
sidered, as well as long-term impacts on ecological systems. The OWF topic is particularly
challenging with respect to the information required concerning the multi-scale processes
in the ocean/atmosphere boundary layer and marine ecosystems, as shown in Figure 3.
1.2. Observation Requirements and Gap Analysis for OWF
To improve the safety and efﬁciency of the OWF business, a data-driven approach has
been adopted by the OWF industry. The digital information for supporting OWF business
is generated by monitoring and modeling technologies. A set of monitoring platforms
has been applied [ 7], e.g., grab and sampling, epi-benthic beam trawling, and drop down
video (DDV) for benthic surveys; beam trawls, otter trawls, lobster pots, gill nets, plankton
nets, or local ﬁshing vessels for ﬁshery and shell ﬁsh surveys; boat-based and digital aerial
surveys, GPS tracking, and radar and coastal vantage point (VP) surveys for ornithological
environmental surveys; visual surveys, static and towed acoustic monitoring, tagging
of individuals with satellite transmitters, and remotely controlled video monitoring for
marine mammal environmental surveys; met mast, wave buoys, current meters, (ﬂoating)
lidar for resource assessment, and metocean monitoring; seismic methods, echo sounding,
magnetometry, and acoustic seismic proﬁling for geophysical surveys; vibrocores, boreholes
with soil/rock sampling, and cone penetration testing (CPT) for geotechnical surveys;
supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA), remotely-operated vehicles (ROVs),
autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs), and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs, mostly
multi-rotor copter drones equipped with a digital, thermographic camera) for operation
and maintenance (inspection, repair) monitoring. Emerging cost-effective technologies
such as ferrybox, HF radar [ 8], and LoRa (long range)-based wireless sensor networks
for monitoring the quality of water in coastal areas [ 9,10] can also be deployed in coastal
areas to provide a signiﬁcant amount of high-resolution observations for OWF applications.
The latter provides a basis for using the Internet of Things (IoT) in marine monitoring for
OWF applications.
In addition to the integrated use of monitoring platforms, monitoring strategies,
including observation requirements, data adequacy, and sampling strategies for the entire
OWF value chain, have also become an important issue as they may signiﬁcantly reduce the
cost and risks of the implementation and operation of OWFs. A summary of observation
requirements was provided in an OWF guide report by The Crown Estate and the Offshore
Renewable Energy Catapult in 2019 [ 7]. A summary is provided in Tables S1–S3, including
surveys on geophysics, geotechnology, hydrography, benthic, ﬁsh and shellﬁsh, habitat,
birds, marine mammals, and human impacts; monitoring for resource and metocean
assessment, data requirements for weather forecasting, metocean conditions, data for
corrosion protection, scour protection, offshore cable installation and protection, operation,
maintenance and condition monitoring, and decommissioning. However, the description
in the guide is very brief. In terms of in situ monitoring activities, only the functions,
methodologies, and some measuring variables are mentioned; detailed requirements for
spatiotemporal dimensions and sampling strategies are still missing. In recent years, some
studies have investigated more detailed observation requirements in a speciﬁc application
area. Monitoring requirements and strategy for OWF structure health were investigated
by Martinez-Luengo et al. in 2016 [ 11]. In Europe, DG-MARE contracted several so-called
“Sea basin check point” projects to assess if European marine data are adequate for offshore
wind siting in European regional seas [ 12]. A ﬁt-for-purpose observation requirement and
gap assessment for OWF siting in the Baltic Sea was provided by She and Murawski in
2019 [ 13]. This study ﬁrst identiﬁed user requirements, targeted information products, and
observation and model requirements, then generated the information products based on
an integrated modeling–monitoring approach. In this process, the availability of existing
observations was mapped, the adequacy of observations was evaluated, and gaps were
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 5 of 23
identiﬁed for use in the information product generation. OWF impacts on biodiversity and
ﬁsheries are a major focus of many studies. A review of the monitoring requirements and
strategy for biodiversity in the Baltic–North Sea was provided by [ 14]. The NRDC (Natural
Resources Defence Council) in the USA also initiated a monitoring guide for marine life
during offshore wind energy development in 2023 [15].
There are still a few gaps in the knowledge base regarding the observation require-
ments and data adequacy assessment for the OWF industry. First, there is a lack of
ﬁt-for-purpose analysis for multi-application areas. The current analysis mainly focuses
on one application. In addition, a ﬁt-for-purpose assessment regarding targeted infor-
mation products is often missing [ 13].Second, recent research reveals several emerging
application areas related to OWF which need extensive monitoring, e.g., multi-use of OWF
platforms [ 16], wake and lee effects of OWFs on atmosphere and ocean environment [17–20],
monitoring for sea bed cable protection [ 21,22], contamination caused by OWF [ 23,24], and
OWF-related security issues [ 25–28]. Observation requirements and adequacy analysis are
rarely performed in these emerging application areas. Third, models play an important
role in providing the required information in different OWF applications. The capacity of
modeling and integration of modeling and monitoring for speciﬁc applications is therefore
essential for identifying observation requirements and gaps. In addition, remote sensing is
also a signiﬁcant source of surface observations. By integrating in situ remote sensing and
models, the ﬁt-for-purpose observation assessment and gap analysis for multi-applications
produce more robust results. However, modeling–monitoring integration and the use
of multi-source datasets have not been sufﬁciently addressed in the previous data gap
analysis. Fourth, the OWF is a sector with high connectivity in space and human–nature
systems. Such connectivity represents links between subsystems with multiple scales
and multiple purposes. Depending on OWF applications, information may be required
for different scales. For the spatial scale, observations are required to resolve the wind
turbine-to-farm scale, inter-farm scale, farm-to-coast scale, and cross-border/regional scale;
for the temporal scale, this can be an operational (synoptic) scale or long-term (OWF life
span) scale. Existing observation requirements and gap analysis for the OWF sector have
not focused on resolving connectivity with multiple spatiotemporal scales.
The purpose of this study is to ﬁll the above research gaps: (i) the observation and gap
analysis is based on an integrated monitoring–modeling approach, and satellite and in situ
observations, models, and data assimilation are considered for the analysis; (ii) the analysis
is performed for six OWF application areas, including four emerging areas for which a
ﬁt-for-purpose observation requirement and gap assessment has not been addressed, i.e.,
optimized monitoring for the protection of sea bed cables; wake and lee effects on atmo-
sphere, sea, and shoreline change; OWF-related contamination; OWF impacts on transport
and security. Two other application areas, operation and maintenance (O&M) and ecologi-
cal impact, as basic OWF applications, have always been affected by the rapid expansion of
OWFs and thus pose new challenges; (iii) a ﬁt-for-purpose observation requirement and
gap assessment method will be developed, with deﬁned targeted information products in
different applications; (iv) the observation requirements and gaps are analyzed for resolv-
ing multi-scale processes wherever relevant, e.g., wind-turbine-to-farm scale, inter-farm
scale, farm-to-coast scale, and cross-border/regional scale in space, and synoptic and/or
long-term (OWF life span) scales in time.
The above research is implemented using a six-step approach: ﬁrst, the application
areas are introduced, and key information products required for each application are
identiﬁed; second, we propose integrated monitoring–modeling solutions based on state-
of-the-art methods to generate the necessary information products; third, required marine
observations and modeling capacities for implementing the solutions are identiﬁed; fourth,
the availability of current monitoring (both in situ and satellite) and modeling capacities
are mapped; ﬁfth, based on the work in the third and fourth steps, the adequacy of
current capacity can be evaluated, and related gaps can be identiﬁed; ﬁnally, we provide
recommendations to ﬁll these gaps. Due to the large number of application areas and the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 6 of 23
complexity of the assessment analysis, the publication of the results is divided into two
parts: results in steps 1–3 are presented in Part I, and steps 4–6 in Part II.
Part I is organized as follows: Section 2 describes the method and materials; Section 3
introduces application areas and deﬁnes key information products; Section 4 identiﬁes the
existing and/or potential solutions for generating the products, as well as the associated
marine data requirements; the discussion is presented in Section 5, and the conclusion is
provided in Section 6.
2. Methodology
The ﬁt-for-purpose analysis method on marine observation requirement and adequacy
assessment is adopted from [ 13], developed and applied in EMODnet Sea Basin Checkpoint
projects [ 12]. Part I implements research steps 1–3. This study is based on the authors’
knowledge and research experiences in the related application areas and literature review to
identify existing knowledge gaps, user requirements on key information products, potential
solutions, and observation requirements. The authors are involved in a variety of research
projects, e.g., JERICO—Joint European Research Infrastructure for Coastal Observation,
EMODnet Sea Basin Checkpoint projects, OLAMUR—Offshore Low-Trophic Aquaculture
in Multi-use Scenario Realisation in North and Baltic Seas, and national information service
projects for offshore wind farms, operational oceanography, and environment assessment
in Denmark, Finland, Germany, The Netherlands, Norway, and Spain. These projects cover
research (observation, modeling, and model–observation integration) and information
services on all focused application areas. The individual knowledge and experiences also
cover state-of-the-art methods at the institutional and national levels.
2.1. Step 1: User Requirements for Key Information Products
The user requirements for key information products are considered from three cat-
egories of users: governmental agencies, OWF operators, and the research community.
Requirements from governmental agencies mainly concern the OWF’s impacts on the
marine environment and ecosystems and conﬂiction with other sea-going activities, which
is reﬂected in the application areas of ecological impact, contamination, and transport
and security. Requirements from OWF operators are to reach low cost, low risk, and high
efﬁciency, which is the case in the application areas of O&M and optimized monitoring
for sea bed cable protection. Requirements from the research communities include un-
derstanding OWF impact mechanisms, ﬁlling knowledge gaps, improving the quality
of information products, and resolving OWF impacts in the forecast models. This is the
case in all six application areas, particularly in wake and lee effects, O&M, and ecological
impact applications. These requirements are deﬁned based on the most recent publications,
research, and service projects.
2.2. Step 2: Identifying Potential Solutions Based on Integrated Monitoring–Modeling Approach
In this part of the research, solutions for generating the key information products will
be recommended based on the best practices currently available. If not available, state-of-
the-art monitoring and modeling capacities will be combined to form a potential solution to
generate the key information products. In this study, best practices in different application
areas tend to be linked with speciﬁc national and institutional research and information
service practices for OWFs. One may ﬁnd that O&M-related analysis is mainly based on
German practices, sea bed cable-related analysis is mainly based on Danish practices, wake
and lee effects are mainly based on Danish and German practices, transport and security
are mainly based on Finnish practices, thus focusing on icing waters, and ecological impact
related analysis is mainly based on Norwegian and Dutch practices.
2.3. Step 3: Identifying Requirements for Using Observations and Improving Models
Addressing the challenges related to the growing number of OWF installations in
diverse environments will require a signiﬁcant effort both in improving numerical modeling
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 7 of 23
and in the integrated use of modeling and observations, including both satellite and in situ
data. On the one hand, there are still many uncertainties about suitable parameterization to
include OWFs in models and forecasting sediment transport in the seabed. Optimization
and validation of such new model components require dedicated observations of various
parameters on a wide range of spatial and temporal scales. On the other hand, OWF
installations add complexity to the environment with new challenges regarding forecasts,
e.g., OWF will have an increasing impact on the routine observations, which are currently
used in data assimilations systems at operational forecast centers. In the six application
areas, a large set of models will be used. The requirements for using observations to
improve modeling are evaluated with a similar method in Section 2.2.
3. Application Areas, Challenges, and Required Information Products
In this section, the six application areas of the OWF sector with high connectivity will
be introduced, and challenges and required information products in the six application
areas will be identiﬁed.
3.1. OWF Operation and Maintenance
Operation and maintenance (O&M) can contribute approximately 30% to the total
lifetime costs of an offshore wind farm. Therefore, the optimization of the respective
activities is a major factor in the economic success of this technology. In general, O&M costs
contain a large variety of components, e.g., spare parts, regular maintenance, insurance,
administration, and repair, and each of these items has individual requirements with respect
to observation-based information products, as shown in Tables S2 and S3. In the following,
we will concentrate on two activities that lead to information demand speciﬁcally for
the ocean:
 Ship operations for OWF maintenance.
 OWF fatigue assessments are needed for lifetime extensions.
According to industry standards, O&M operations are split into two main cate-
gories [ 29]. The ﬁrst type of operation is “weather-restricted” activities, where the op-
eration is relatively short (typically 72 h or less), and metocean forecasts can be used to
obtain information concerning the conditions to be expected. If the operation is longer
than that, the activity is classiﬁed as “weather-unrestricted”, and many more conservative
assumptions about the conditions based on long-term extreme statistics must be used to
make decisions about the mission.
Usually, strict limits exist for sea state parameters to allow maintenance ships to anchor
at offshore wind turbines and to transfer personnel. Typically, insurance companies deﬁne
signiﬁcant wave heights of approximately 1.5 m, below which maintenance operations can
be conducted [ 30]. The exact limit depends on the ship size and type. As the costs for the
operation of maintenance ships are a major factor, optimized planning of these operations
is crucial. Decisions about whether to leave the harbor and go out to an OWF are made
based on sea state forecasts, which are, of course, affected by errors.
A strategy for an optimal decision regarding an O&M operation can be designed if
two additional pieces of information are available, i.e., the accuracy of the wave forecast
provided by a probability density function and the costs associated with the decisions on
different operation scenarios.
In this case, the expected costs for a decision to go out or stay in the harbor can be
estimated as
cost(“stay in harbour”) = cost(“B”) Prob(Hs > limit) + cost(“D”) Prob(Hs < limit)
cost(“go out”) = cost(“A”) Prob(Hs < limit) + cost(“C”) Prob(Hs > limit),
and the scenario with the lowest expected costs can be chosen.
To make this optimal decision, a wave forecast product, together with its uncertainty
estimation, is required. The product should cover the area of OWFs and surrounding
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 8 of 23
coastal waters. We will explain in Section 4 that such a product contains several important
connectivity aspects.
The second application in the context of O&M is related to OWF lifetime extensions.
Typical lifetimes of OWFs are 25–30 years, and any potential extension of that lifetime has
beneﬁcial consequences for the overall costs of the OWF life cycle. One important factor for
a decision concerning a lifetime extension is the fatigue and extreme loads experienced by
the OWF throughout its lifetime. As before, ocean wave conditions, particularly extreme
sea states (and in the northern sea areas, sea ice), play an important role in this context.
Similar to the case of the wave forecast, such a product contains several connectivity aspects;
however, the details are a little bit different and will be explained further in the next section.
3.2. Protection of Submarine Cables
There are several challenges related to sea bed geological properties in the installation
and protection of submarine cables. These include bedrock and hard sediments, boulder
ﬁelds, sea bed gradients, mobile sediments, acoustic blanking, gas/ﬂuid seepage features,
sediment instability, and man-made activities and features such as ﬁshing and debris.
Among them, the responses to the mobile sediment and sediment instability are extremely
challenging as the situations are highly dynamic and variable. A comprehensive geological
survey is required to assess all these factors before installing the cable (Table S2). Near and
offshore sea beds can be highly variable in space with sand dunes, channels, bunkers, and
depressions, as shown by existing surveys [ 31]. Most often, these features are related to
sediment transport, entrainment, and erosion. Since these processes are highly dynamic,
geological properties in the areas with mobile sediments will also be dynamic. The moving
sediments may bury or expose the cable, which should be avoided since excess burial depth
may result in overheating, and exposure will leave cables vulnerable to damage.
Several solutions have been applied for protecting cables in mobile sediment areas,
e.g., pre-dredging or pre-sweeping the cable route prior to laying and trenching, using rock
placement on top of the laid cable. However, due to the dynamic sediment environment,
ongoing maintenance is required. Frequent burial depth measurements and burial remedia-
tion, for example, on a yearly basis in critical areas, are often used as an economically viable
mitigation method. For the industry, it is essential to know where the critical areas are and
how fast the burial depth changes in the critical areas. In addition, the impact of sea ice
on cable protection needs to be taken into account in the northern Baltic Sea since packed
sea ice can reach depths of tens of meters [ 32]. Hence, the required information product is
the changing rate of the sea bed sediment layer and the packed sea ice information. The
product should cover areas around the cable arrays.
For this analysis, we use cable protection in Danish waters as an example (Figure 4).
Danish cables are placed not only in Danish waters but also connect to Norway, Sweden,
Germany, the UK, and other countries. In Denmark, submarine cable protection is man-
aged at company and community levels, promoted and coordinated by the Danish Cable
Protection Committee (DKCPC), an association of gas, telecommunication, and electricity
companies owning submarine cables and pipelines in Danish maritime territory.
3.3. Wake and Lee Effects
Recent research found that OWFs have signiﬁcant wake effects, which have been
captured by both in situ [ 17] and satellite observations, as shown in Figure 5. OWFs can
cause a 2–20% reduction in mean downstream wind speed at 10 m above mean sea level,
with some wakes extending over 100 km. The average wind wakes are 20–40 km in size,
suggesting that future offshore wind farms should be built at least that distance from
the nearest neighboring wind farm site [ 18]. The OWF wake effect also changes air–sea
boundary layers such as air and sea temperature, visibility, and icing, as well as changes
the local waves, currents, water mixing, suspended particulate matter (SPM) transport [ 33],
and sea ice formation. The wake effect is largely determined by OWFs’ output power
capacity, the farm layout, and air–sea temperature differences [ 34]. The change in the winds
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 9 of 23
may signiﬁcantly affect wind power prediction, and changes in water mixing and SPM may
degrade water quality and further affect marine ecosystems. Hence, wake effects should be
included in weather, ocean, and ecological models to provide better predictions.
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 9 of 24 
 
 For this analysis, we use cable protection in  Danish waters as an example (Figure 4). 
Danish cables are placed not only in Danish waters but also connect to Norway, Sweden, 
Germany, the UK, and other countries. In Denmark, submarine cable protection is man-aged at company and community levels, promoted and coordinated by the Danish Cable 
Protection Commi ttee (DKCPC), an association of gas, telecommunication, and electricity 
companies owning submarine cables and pipelines in Da nish maritime territory. 
 
Figure 4. Submarine cable lines connected in and to Denmark, as of 3 December 2022, including 
power cables (red) and telecommunication cables (green) (source: The Danish Cable Protection 
Committee (DKCPC)).  
3.3. Wake and Lee E ﬀects 
Recent research found that OWFs have signi ﬁcant wake e ﬀects, which have been cap-
tured by both in situ [17] and satellite observations, as shown in Figure 5. OWFs can cause 
a 2–20% reduction in mean downstream wind speed at 10 m above mean sea level, with some wakes extending over 100 km. The average wind wakes are 20–40 km in size, sug-
gesting that future o ﬀshore wind farms should be built at least that distance from the 
nearest neighboring wind farm  site [18]. The OWF wake e ﬀect also changes air–sea bound-
ary layers such as air and sea temperature, visibility, and icing, as well as changes the local 
waves, currents, water mixing, suspended particulate ma tter (SPM) transport [33], and sea 
ice formation. The wake e ﬀect is largely determined by OWFs’ output power capacity, the 
farm layout, and air–sea temperature di ﬀerences [34]. The change in the winds may sig-
niﬁcantly aﬀect wind power prediction, and changes in water mixing and SPM may de-
grade water quality and further a ﬀect marine ecosystems. Hence, wake e ﬀects should be 
included in weather, ocean, and ecological models to provide be tter predictions. 
The hydrodynamic impacts are transferred to the ocean via two routes: (1) modi ﬁca-
tion of the wind ﬁeld aﬀecting the wave and current ﬁelds, and (2) wind turbine founda-
tions’ direct e ﬀects on ocean waves and currents and consequently on turbulence, mixing, 
and vertical strati ﬁcation [35]. Existing studies [19,20,36,37] found that wind turbine foun-
dations could extract energy from the backgr ound currents, enhancing turbulence mixing 
in the wakes. 
A modeling experiment showed that the wave height could easily be reduced in the 
order of 4–5% 2 km down-wind of the OWF and up to 2% 10 km down-wind. The direc-tion of the incoming waves is also modi ﬁed [38]. The lee e ﬀects of the OWF result in sed-
iment accumulations similar to what ca n be seen behind shore parallel o ﬀshore breakwa-
Figure 4. Submarine cable lines connected in and to Denmark, as of 3 December 2022, including
power cables (red) and telecommunication cables (green) (source: The Danish Cable Protection
Committee (DKCPC)).
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 10 of 24 
 
 ters. The sediment is accumulated as a salient , for which the sand can be taken from neigh-
boring beaches, thus leading to shoreline erosion. The change in shoreline is on a scale of 
a few meters every ten years, depending on the location and layout of the OWF and the natural conditions (nearshore curren ts, waves, and beach types), etc. 
 
Figure 5. SENTINEL-1A satellite radar image acquired on 1 April 2020, showing atmospheric wakes 
downstream of o ﬀshore wind parks in the German Bight (C opernicus 2020 data). The grey values 
correspond to the small-scale sea surface roughness, strongly correlated with near-surface wind speeds. The red circle indicates the location of the ﬁrst German o ﬀshore windpark, “ Alpha Ventus”, 
commissioned in 2010, with the measuremen t platform FINO-1 on the left side. 
In this application, OWF users will require improved weather–ocean–ice–wave and 
sediment–biogeochemistry predictions by resolving the wake e ﬀects and assessing their 
long-term impacts. The information products required in this application comprise the 
change in weather and ocean conditions (e.g., winds, waves, currents, SPM, turbidity, and 
sea bed sediments) and long-term shoreline ch ange rate per coastal stretch due to OWFs. 
For the research community, parameterizations of OWF impacts in weather–ocean–
wave–SPM models are still underdeveloped; thus, observation products on wind pro ﬁles, 
waves, currents, T/S, and SPM in the wake area are required to calibrate and optimize 
model parameterizations. 
3.4. Impacts of OWF on Tr ansport, Maritime Safety, and Weather Forecasting  
OWFs also impact the human use of marine areas. There are two speci ﬁc aspects rel-
evant to Northeast Europe. Firstly, the Northern Baltic Sea is covered with seasonal ice, typically between November and May [39]. In addition to the direct mechanical impacts 
on windmills, large OWFs impact the norm al movement of sea ice by creating arti ﬁcial 
areas where sea ice ﬁelds freeze more easily, and fast ic e may form instead of moving ice 
ﬁelds. Thus, the locations of OWFs have an im pact both on local ec osystems and shipping 
traﬃc requiring ice-breaking activities. The changes in sea ice may also impact the icing 
of windmill blades and thus reduce/increase the expected annual energy production de-
pending on the direction of changes [40]. The sea ice also impacts the OWF inspection and 
maintenance (Sections 3.1 and 4.1), such as the sea state. 
Secondly, large wind farms have an impact on marine vessel radars [25], HF radars 
[26], marine surveillance radar networks [27], and weather radars [28]. The continuous movement of blades creates disturbances on the backsca tter of the radar signals, and as 
the wind direction and speed continuously chan ges, forecasting the signal disturbances is 
Figure 5. SENTINEL-1A satellite radar image acquired on 1 April 2020, showing atmospheric wakes
downstream of offshore wind parks in the German Bight (Copernicus 2020 data). The grey values
correspond to the small-scale sea surface roughness, strongly correlated with near-surface wind
speeds. The red circle indicates the location of the ﬁrst German offshore windpark, “Alpha Ventus”,
commissioned in 2010, with the measurement platform FINO-1 on the left side.
The hydrodynamic impacts are transferred to the ocean via two routes: (1) mod-
iﬁcation of the wind ﬁeld affecting the wave and current ﬁelds, and (2) wind turbine
foundations’ direct effects on ocean waves and currents and consequently on turbulence,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 10 of 23
mixing, and vertical stratiﬁcation [ 35]. Existing studies [ 19,20,36,37] found that wind tur-
bine foundations could extract energy from the background currents, enhancing turbulence
mixing in the wakes.
A modeling experiment showed that the wave height could easily be reduced in the
order of 4–5% 2 km down-wind of the OWF and up to 2% 10 km down-wind. The direction
of the incoming waves is also modiﬁed [ 38]. The lee effects of the OWF result in sediment
accumulations similar to what can be seen behind shore parallel offshore breakwaters. The
sediment is accumulated as a salient, for which the sand can be taken from neighboring
beaches, thus leading to shoreline erosion. The change in shoreline is on a scale of a few
meters every ten years, depending on the location and layout of the OWF and the natural
conditions (nearshore currents, waves, and beach types), etc.
In this application, OWF users will require improved weather–ocean–ice–wave and
sediment–biogeochemistry predictions by resolving the wake effects and assessing their
long-term impacts. The information products required in this application comprise the
change in weather and ocean conditions (e.g., winds, waves, currents, SPM, turbidity, and
sea bed sediments) and long-term shoreline change rate per coastal stretch due to OWFs.
For the research community, parameterizations of OWF impacts in weather–ocean–
wave–SPM models are still underdeveloped; thus, observation products on wind proﬁles,
waves, currents, T/S, and SPM in the wake area are required to calibrate and optimize
model parameterizations.
3.4. Impacts of OWF on Transport, Maritime Safety, and Weather Forecasting
OWFs also impact the human use of marine areas. There are two speciﬁc aspects
relevant to Northeast Europe. Firstly, the Northern Baltic Sea is covered with seasonal ice,
typically between November and May [ 39]. In addition to the direct mechanical impacts
on windmills, large OWFs impact the normal movement of sea ice by creating artiﬁcial
areas where sea ice ﬁelds freeze more easily, and fast ice may form instead of moving
ice ﬁelds. Thus, the locations of OWFs have an impact both on local ecosystems and
shipping trafﬁc requiring ice-breaking activities. The changes in sea ice may also impact the
icing of windmill blades and thus reduce/increase the expected annual energy production
depending on the direction of changes [ 40]. The sea ice also impacts the OWF inspection
and maintenance (Sections 3.1 and 4.1), such as the sea state.
Secondly, large wind farms have an impact on marine vessel radars [ 25], HF radars [ 26],
marine surveillance radar networks [ 27], and weather radars [ 28]. The continuous move-
ment of blades creates disturbances on the backscatter of the radar signals, and as the
wind direction and speed continuously changes, forecasting the signal disturbances is
challenging and, in some cases, not possible, even with state-of-the-art radar technology.
The military aspects of this second challenge have led to a situation where large sea areas
in the eastern Gulf of Finland, the Baltic Sea, are currently excluded from wind energy
production. These military aspects are also connected to the protection of submarine cables;
with an increasing share of energy produced with OWFs, submarine cables are part of
critical infrastructure, and surveillance radars are thus an essential part of cable protection.
From a forecasting and research perspective, OWFs may inﬂuence observations of
surface currents and waves from HF radars, sea ice movements from coastal radars [ 41,42],
and meteorological observations over the sea from weather radars (providing, e.g., wind
ﬁeld observations used as inputs for wave forecasting models), and thus the existing
and planned locations of OWF must be taken into account while designing the observ-
ing networks and methods to ﬁll the meteorological observing gaps within and behind
the OWF.
Due to security issues, a signiﬁcant part of radar-related research is not public, and
to support open discussion and fact-based decision-making, more open and independent
academic research is necessary in this ﬁeld of research [43].
In these applications, the national weather surveys and maritime authorities require
methods and measurements to ﬁll the radar observation gaps related to wind and pre-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 11 of 23
cipitation observations and marine surveillance in the areas shadowed by the OWFs.
Additionally, in situ observations are required to address the changes in ice ﬁeld motion
and sea ice processes.
3.5. Contamination Assessment and Response
OWFs can also be at the origin of a release of contaminants in the ocean. Protection sys-
tems used to ensure the durability of offshore infrastructures in the highly corrosive marine
environment are based on either cathodic systems, increased steel thickness, or chemical
coatings. These protection systems emit metals such as Aluminium, Zinc, Cadmium, and
Indium (metal emissions) or organic compounds (chemical emissions) such as Bisphenol
A [23,24]. These emissions can be as large as 45 tons of Aluminium and 2 tons of Zinc per
year for a wind farm with 80 turbines [ 23]. Moreover, the transportation, construction, and
maintenance of OWFs also imply an increase in ship trafﬁc and the probability of marine
pollution accidents.
The above emissions mostly occur in the OWF site, steadily for the OWF lifespan, and
may also affect surrounding areas due to the transport of the contaminants emitted by
the OWF. In such a case, the three-dimensional distribution of the pollutant concentration
in the seawater, sediment, and biota, both in the OWF site and surrounding waters, is a
key information product for impact assessment and response. Knowledge of the regional
oceanographic connectivity and observations is necessary to characterize ocean transports
from the OWF sites toward the rest of the ocean basins.
3.6. Ecological Impacts of OWFs
The construction and operation of OWFs can have signiﬁcant impacts on marine
ecosystems and the habitats of marine organisms through different pathways. Ecological
impacts are mainly caused by changes in (1) noise, (2) habitat, (3) electromagnetic ﬁelds,
and (4) water quality. Moreover, the rotator blades of the OWF can pose a collision risk
to birds and bats. An overview of potential effects on the marine ecosystem is provided
in [24,44] for ﬂoating OWFs by summarizing the existing literature.
Underwater noise: during the construction and operation of offshore wind farms, un-
derwater noise is generated, which may affect marine life. The assessment should evaluate
the sound propagation, intensity, and frequency to understand the potential impacts on
ﬁshes, mammals, and sea birds, particularly those that rely on acoustic communication.
Noise mainly acts as a disturbance that many swimming marine organisms would try
to avoid. Fish, mammals, and many invertebrates can perceive vibrations associated with
low-frequency sound and react via changes in behavior, physics, or physiology [ 45–47].
Most of the focus on invertebrates in the literature concerns the harmful effects of impulsive
noise and vibrations [ 48,49], but continuous noise can also lead to behavioral changes [ 50].
Therefore, it is possible that increased noise levels are one of the reasons why the facilities
are quickly colonized by bottom-dwelling invertebrates [ 51,52]. A three-dimensional noise
distribution map in the OWF and surrounding waters, together with biodiversity data
before and after the OWF installation, is required to conclude whether noise from wind
turbines will have mostly positive or negative effects on invertebrates.
Habitat alteration: during the operation phase, both the benthic and pelagic habitats
are changed by the presence of underwater structures, such as support foundations and
cable protection systems, which can create artiﬁcial reefs. Studies from some European
countries show that the turbine foundations have a clear positive effect on the occurrence
of algae and benthic animals through fouling. This means that many species of ﬁsh are
attracted to the facilities. It is uncertain whether the increase in the area around the wind
power plants is only the movement of local ﬁsh or a real increase in the population [ 53].
Furthermore, the benthic habitat can be indirectly affected by enhanced turbulence in
the wake and by reducing the impacts of bottom-trawling ﬁsheries. Lastly, the pelagic
habitat is affected through a chain of cascading effects through the ecosystem, starting
from the direct impacts described above, with culminating effects throughout the food web
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 12 of 23
within the OWF and stretching far beyond the OWF due to wake and lee effects. Due to
the changes in benthic habitats, more opportunities for invasive species may be created.
Understanding the nature and magnitude of these ecological impacts is crucial for the
sustainable development of OWFs and minimizing their impacts on marine biodiversity.
The information products needed for this application are habitat change and its potential
impact on organisms and their associated ecosystems.
Electromagnetic ﬁelds (EMFs): submarine cables and electrical infrastructure associ-
ated with OWFs emit electromagnetic ﬁelds and potentially impact marine creatures [ 54].
Different ﬁsh species have shown different sensitivity to changes in EMF by either showing
changes in behavior [ 55] or no reaction [ 56]. The information products required in this
application are EMF levels and their potential effects on migratory patterns, behavior, and
sensory systems of marine species.
Collision risk: offshore wind turbines can pose collision risks for birds and bats,
especially during migration or feeding activities. Impact assessments analyze the species
composition, ﬂight patterns, and population densities to estimate the potential risks and
inform mitigation measures. Observation of this direct impact on bird populations is
complicated because birds that are hit cannot be collected below the wind turbines as is
performed for wind turbines on land [ 57]. In the absence of observation data, models are
commonly used to calculate collision risks, e.g., in [58].
Indirect effects: the ecological impact assessment should also consider the indirect
effects of OWFs, such as changes in water quality, sedimentation, and the food chain.
These factors can affect the availability of prey species for ﬁshes, mammals, and sea
birds. Modeling studies and satellite data show wake effects on vertical mixing, enhanced
suspended sediment concentrations [ 59], the break-up of stratiﬁcation, and big changes in
primary production. This, in turn, is also likely to affect the carrying capacity for higher
trophic levels.
Displacement and barrier effects: OWFs can cause temporary or permanent displace-
ment of ﬁshes, mammals, and sea birds from their natural habitats. Assessments examine
potential changes in migration routes, foraging grounds, and breeding areas, as well as the
overall impact on population dynamics.
Therefore, key information products required for the ecological impact assessment
should be short- and long-term changes of ecosystem indicators, including (i) pressure
indicators, e.g., underwater noise level, electromagnetic ﬁeld level, physical and chemical
environment, water quality (including contaminants directly released from the turbines),
and habitat, and (ii) biota indicators, such as biomass for both low and high trophic levels,
biodiversity, or taxa of conservation concern.
4. Solutions and Required Data and Modeling Technologies
With regard to the key information products identiﬁed in Section 3, effective solutions
are required to generate the products. Such solutions are often based on integrating models
(dynamic, statistical, and ML/AI algorithms) and in situ and remote sensing observations.
In this section, we describe solutions for each product deﬁned in Section 3 and identify the
observation data and models required for the solutions.
It should be noted that, due to the fast-growing number of OWFs and spatial con-
nection of atmosphere, coast, offshore, and marine ecosystems, most of the information
products for OWFs, either local forecasts or assessment of the impacts, will need to con-
sider impacts of all OWFs in the regional sea scale. Thus, the solutions here represent a
regional-scale solution that ﬁts the purposes of individual OWFs, the research community,
and national and regional stakeholders.
4.1. OWF Operation and Maintenance
As mentioned in Section 3, to make the optimal decision for short-term OWF O&M, a
wave forecast product, together with an uncertainty estimate, is required. This includes
both the wind sea part generated by the local wind ﬁeld and a swell component, which is
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 13 of 23
generated by some distant high wind speed event earlier on. The swell can signiﬁcantly
impact ship operations, particularly if the swell periods match the eigenmodes of the
ship. In practice, such a forecast is routinely generated by global–regional–local wave
forecasting systems.
Global–regional wave monitoring and forecasting systems have been constantly im-
proved in recent decades. For example, recent changes in the ocean wave model used in
ECMWF’s Integrated Forecasting System (IFS) and Meteo France WAM model include
new parametrizations for wind input and deep-water dissipation of waves, which improve
forecasts of some of the most common ocean wave variables, including signiﬁcant wave
height [ 60]. The new formulation reduces the overprediction of long-period swell energy
and small wave height underestimation in storm tracks. Wave forecasts on global and
regional scales are regarded as sufﬁciently good for users. The focus of the O&M forecasting
service is on the local forecast in the farm and areas between and farm and the coast. Due
to the presence of OWFs and complex coastal topography, there are a few challenges in the
local wave forecast:
 The impact of OWFs on winds and waves is currently not resolved by weather and
wave forecasts.
 Wave propagation and dissipation terms in shallow waters and areas with land–sea
blended grids require speciﬁc treatment [ 61]. Complex coastlines, including islands,
will change wave propagation, but the model resolution is insufﬁcient.
 Interaction between waves and currents must be resolvedas the sea level becomes
signiﬁcant in coastal waters.
These issues will lead to forecast errors in current coastal wave models. The proposed
solutions are: (i) to use shallow water wave models with improved shallow water wave
source terms; (ii) to assimilate wave, currents, and sea level observations in a coupled wave–
ocean forecasting system; (iii) to parameterize impacts of OWFs in weather, ocean, and
wave models (more details will be provided in Section 4.3); (iv) to develop an individualized
optimal local forecast by aggregating different forecasts and observations. When developing
the above solutions, local wind, wave, and sea level observations in the OWF and nearby
areas are essential for quantifying forecast uncertainties and optimizing the forecast [ 62].
Current data, e.g., measured by HF radar, are also useful for improving wave–current
interactions in the wave forecast model. In icing seas, forecasts of sea ice conditions are
essential for operating maintenance vessels. Sea ice forecasts and services are provided
in Nordic countries using sea ice models. Observations on the type, concentration, and
thickness of the sea ice are required to improve the model forecast and quantify the
uncertainties. Currently, monitoring and forecasts of sea ice thickness and fast ice still
pose major challenges. Wave forecasts in the ice-marginal zone (with an ice concentration
of less than 85%) due to less resolved wave–ice interaction in the model still have large
uncertainties. Observations in the ice-marginal zone are required to calibrate and validate
the models.
The forecast of structural icing on wind turbines is another important factor, as it limits
local maintenance operations. This relies on better parameterizing the OWFs’ impacts in
the atmospheric boundary layer, which has not been sufﬁciently resolved in present-day
numerical weather-prediction models. In such a case, local observations on the atmospheric
boundary layer will be important for reducing the forecast uncertainties.
Another application area is OWF lifetime extensions. In this application, wave and
sea ice time series data are required to estimate fatigue and extreme loads. In practice, this
means that the temporal sampling of the time series must be sufﬁciently high to capture
extreme conditions.
4.2. Protection of Submarine Cables
In order to provide the required information products for the cable protection problem
caused by the mobile sediments, i.e., changes in cable burial depth, two solutions can be
applied: a survey-based solution and a survey-modeling integrated solution.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 14 of 23
Survey-based solution: ﬁrst, multiple surveys with a certain elapsed time, e.g., one
year, need to be conducted; then, based on the result, the speed and volume of sediment
transport can be calculated. In this way, areas with high sediment mobility can be identiﬁed.
It is often necessary to perform this as a pre-lay practice since post-lay activities can be very
expensive and are not always effective. This also means years will pass before the cable
installation if a survey-based solution is adopted.
Survey-modeling integrated solution: in this solution, in situ and satellite observations
and models capable of simulating the sea sediment variability are integrated to produce
the required information products. The survey-modeling integrated solution has several
advantages. It can be performed in a large area, save both expenses and time (in the order
of years) for cable installation and protection, and predict future changes in burial depth.
The model for this purpose consists of sediment transport and morphology modules,
which support both bedload and suspended load transport of non-cohesive sediments and
suspended load of cohesive sediments due to waves and currents. In the model, the sedi-
ment is categorized as “mud” (cohesive suspended load transport), “sand” (non-cohesive
bedload and suspended load transport), and “bedload” (non-cohesive bedload only or
total load transport) fractions. The simulation may include as many an arbitrary number of
these fractions as computer memory and simulation time allow. The hydrodynamic and
wave energy equations are solved to determine the suspended transport due to currents
and waves for “sand” and “mud” fractions. The sea bed composition can be modeled
either as a single well-mixed layer or as a multi-layer bed to keep track of the development
of different layers of sediment over time. A comprehensive sediment and morphology
transport model has been developed by industrial software developers such as Deltares
(D-Morphology, https://oss.deltares.nl/web/delft3d/manuals, accessed on 8 June 2023).
Numerical models must be calibrated using historical survey data, including bathymetry,
currents, substrate types and grain sizes, and the changing rate of burial depth. If the
model is proven to be sufﬁciently good, it can be used to identify critical areas and predict
the future evolution of the burial depth. In practice, the model development can be divided
into two stages: the ﬁrst stage is to develop large-scale drift models of suspended load and
bedload, while the second stage is to develop downscaled ﬁne-scale models which can
be applied to a given case of cable protection. To develop and implement this integrated
solution, waves, currents, ﬁne-resolution bathymetry, and substrate types are required to
conﬁgure the sediment transport models. Observations of ocean currents, grain size and
related sedimentation rate, and sea bed sediment layer depth are necessary to calibrate and
validate the model.
In ice-covered sea areas, submarine cables close to the sea surface may be impacted by
moving sea ice. To avoid these adverse impacts, information on the maximum depths sea
ice can reach is required. This can be achieved with a combination of sea ice models and in
situ observations providing statistics of sea ice properties in a speciﬁc area.
4.3. Wake and Lee Effects
Since there are signiﬁcant knowledge gaps on the wake and lee effects of OWFs, a
process-oriented in situ monitoring and modeling approach is required both to improve
the OWF parameterizations in the models and assess the differences in atmosphere, ocean,
sediment, and coast morphology before and after the OWFs are deployed. For the se-
lected OWF sites, relevant marine environment parameters should be monitored before
and after OWF deployment so that the impacts of OWFs can be quantitatively assessed.
However, due to natural variability, the OWF impact cannot be accurately assessed only
using observations. It is necessary to use well-calibrated OWF-resolving atmospheric–
hydrodynamic–wave–sea–ice models to simulate impacts. However, due to the resolution
limits (currently a kilometer grid for weather and 10 s of meters grid for hydrodynamics)
in these models, individual turbines will not be explicitly resolved; instead, their effects
will be parameterized according to the model grid size. The data and knowledge obtained
in the individual OWF impact study can be used to derive parameterizations of the wake
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 15 of 23
and lee effects of OWFs. Such parameterizations can then be applied in coarser resolution,
large-scale weather, ocean, and wave forecast models so that the OWF impacts can be
simulated. Downstream impacts on sediment transport and coastal erosion can also be
modeled, with forcing from the impact-resolving weather–ocean–wave–sea–ice models.
Key variables are required to calibrate and validate model forecasts and assessments,
including winds, waves, currents, temperature/salinity proﬁles, turbidity, sea ice, substrate,
SPM, and shoreline positions. Other data, such as OWF geographic and power conﬁgu-
rations, are required for model parameterization. The area of interest is mainly in OWF
and surrounding areas up to the coast, especially the wake area. For wake effect forecast
application, hourly data for a short period, e.g., a few months to a year, will be required.
For long-term impacts on the coastal morphology, multi-year or decadal observations will
be required for the assessment, while the sampling frequency can be a few times a year or
adaptive sampling focusing on severe erosion events.
4.4. Speciﬁc Impacts of OWF on Sea Ice and Safety
There are two important areas of particular interest, especially in the northern and
eastern Baltic Sea, the impact of large OWFs on sea ice and the impact on radar observ-
ing networks.
In the northern seas, estimating and analyzing the impacts of OWF on marine transport
and local ecosystems requires an understanding of the interactions between the OWF and
sea ice, representing a knowledge gap. Typically, the resolution in existing sea ice models is
not high enough to include processes in the scales of OWF. Thus, models with ﬂexible grids
are required. The development and validation of these models require detailed observations
of sea ice properties, local meteorology, mechanical forcing, and wind tower design.
Addressing the second challenge created by the increasing number of OWFs on
radars requires developments both on the observing and modeling sides. Part of the
solution is to use additional weather and surveillance radars and marine weather stations
to cover shadowed areas. In particular, additional observations of vertical wind proﬁles
and precipitation are essential to maintain the accuracy of marine forecasts (relying on
weather radars) at the current level. However, due to the seasonal ice cover, solutions
based on measurement buoys are impossible, making the challenges sometimes difﬁcult to
solve. Additionally, further basic research is required to develop methods to estimate the
impacts of OWFs on, for example, (radar) electromagnetic signal propagation in the marine
boundary layers as the OWFs also have indirect impacts on radars due to boundary layer
processes such as changes in the sea surface evaporation layer.
4.5. Contamination Assessment and Response
In order to derive the distribution of the major contaminants emitted from the off-
shore wind turbines in seawater and sediment and their impacts on biota, an integrated
monitoring–modeling laboratory experiment is required. The laboratory experiment, to-
gether with ﬁeld monitoring, will determine the emission rates of major metals and chemi-
cals; numerical models are required to simulate the transport pathways of the chemicals,
both in seawater and sediment. These models should include modules of hydrodynamics,
waves, and particle sedimentation and resuspension. Field monitoring should be carried
out to obtain contaminant concentrations and hydrodynamic and wave conditions, which
can be used for calibrating and validating the models. The contaminant concentration in
species such as seagrass, benthic, and ﬁsh can be obtained from monitoring data in biota,
while the impacts of the contaminants must be assessed via toxicity experiments. The
observation requirements for this application are summarized in Table A1. An accurate
representation of ocean currents and their variability is required to track the path of con-
taminants released at sea. Operational ocean circulation models provide very valuable
tools in this respect. These models are ideally coupled with wave models to account for the
effect of wave-driven currents on surface drift. Wake and lee effects of OWFs on winds,
waves, and currents should be resolved. A high resolution (i.e., a few hundred meters
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 16 of 23
in terms of the grid size) is generally required to resolve the impact of OWFs. Satellite
altimetry sea level observations can now cover coastal waters with a 1 km resolution [ 63].
Data-assimilative models which integrate this information and combine it with other multi-
platform in situ measurements provide adequate tools to represent these observed ﬁelds as
well as the smaller-scale variability associated with it. These models, by representing the
full 4D variability of multivariate ocean ﬁelds, are able to describe the spatiotemporal ocean
connectivity associated with ocean currents, which is especially useful for the identiﬁcation
of remote areas likely to be affected by the contamination possibly generated at OWF sites.
4.6. Ecological Impacts
As analyzed in Section 3.6, the key information products for assessing the ecosystem
impacts of OWFs include short- and long-term changes in both pressure and biota indica-
tors. To derive these indicators, information is required from all variables in the effect chain,
starting from changes in vertical mixing around the wind turbines, resulting in changes in
stratiﬁcation, turbidity, light climate, primary production, and phytoplankton in the OWF
and its wake. Furthermore, information is required on noise levels, changes in benthic
substrate and benthic communities in the OWF, and changes in the abundance of zooplank-
ton, ﬁsh, and marine mammals within the OWF and its wake. Since the identiﬁcation of
changes is the key objective of required information products, consistent observations over
a sustained period are required, starting before the construction of the OWF. Ecological
impacts are likely to reach far beyond the areas of individual OWFs. Particularly, if the
number of OWFs increases as is presently foreseen, the wake effects of different OWFs
are likely to interfere and lead to larger cumulative impacts than impacts from individual
OWFs. Fish, marine mammals, and birds migrate over large areas, so changes in their
abundance will not only be affected by the local effects of OWFs. Rather, they respond to
ecosystem change over larger areas, across national borders, with a particular sensitivity
to changes in their spawning and nursing grounds. Thus, understanding of ecological
impacts of OWFs would require the sharing and integration of data between countries in
combined information products.
It should be noted that in situ observations can have large gaps in space, while for
most of the pressure indicators (e.g., noise, EMF) and some biota indicators (e.g., plankton),
we require a continuous 3D distribution. An ideal solution is to use calibrated numeri-
cal models, including marine biogeochemical and ecosystem models, noise propagation
models, and pollutant and sediment transport models. In addition, the models can also be
used to estimate variables that are hard to observe (such as bird collisions), test different
hypotheses on causal relations between different observed variables, and extrapolate to
future scenarios.
Ecological impact assessments are conducted both before the construction of offshore
wind farms and during the operation phase. Assessments before construction are used to
apply for construction permits and optimize the location and design to minimize potential
ecological risks. In this stage, potential impacts are mainly estimated from observations
of the current situation and model simulations of future scenarios. During the operation
phase, monitoring the change in noise level, water quality and habitat, and ecological
impacts is required to assess the level of environmental change and check whether the
ecosystem is unacceptably affected. To this end, long-term observation data are required for
trend detection. Additionally, interpretation of any trends is required to detect the causes of
the trends, and selecting adaptive management approaches is essential to ensure that any
unforeseen impacts are identiﬁed and addressed promptly, helping to minimize adverse
effects on marine species and their habitats.
Impact assessments often include recommendations for monitoring programs to track
the long-term effects of offshore wind farms on marine life. They also propose mitigation
measures, such as adjusting turbine design, optimizing cable routes, or implementing
seasonal restrictions to minimize potential impacts on ﬁsh, mammals, and sea birds.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 17 of 23
5. Discussion
Since this study mainly focuses on the monitoring requirements, several other impor-
tant issues related to OWF observations, such as demands on coordinated data management
between different sectors, data transmission, interoperability, and accessibility, have not
been addressed. There are also emerging areas missing, such as the multi-use of OWF
platforms, in this study. Furthermore, further research should be carried out to synthesize
observation requirements resolving multi-scale processes and multi-application objectives.
These are discussed below.
5.1. Multi-Use of OWF Platforms
The selection of applications is not exclusive in this study; other applications, such as
optimal OWF siting and multi-use of offshore platforms, are also important when designing
integrated monitoring for OWFs. Observation requirements and gap analysis of OWF
siting have been investigated in previous studies [ 13]. The multi-use of OWF has been
an intensive research area in the EU research framework FP7, Horizon 2020, and Horizon
Europe [ 16]. The observation requirements for multi-use are related not only to OWF
applications but also to speciﬁc co-utilization, e.g., aquaculture farms and tourism. Since
the focus of this study is mainly on OWF-only applications, the topic of multi-use offshore
platforms is not covered by this paper. A separate study on observation requirements and
adequacy analysis for the multi-use of OWFs can be conducted in the future.
5.2. Model-Observation Integration in Areas with High Connectivity and Multiple Scales
Due to the high spatial connectivity of the applications in the land–coastal–open sea
continuum, the observation requirements are considered in a multi-application, multi-
scale, and multi-process framework with integrated monitoring–modeling solutions. The
information products are required at four scales: local scale, i.e., within the farm and cable
line area; inter-farm scale; coastal scale, i.e., between the farms and coasts; the cross-border
or regional scale, which is between nations. In order to derive these multi-scale information
products, both marine monitoring and modeling will be used. The monitoring will obtain
real physical, chemical, and biological states of the ocean, but with spatial and temporal
gaps. Models, with seamless and on-demand modeling capacity, will be able to resolve the
multiple scales of spatial connectivity, coupled physical–chemical–biological marine system,
as well as multiple time scales from days to decades, and ﬁnally produce four-dimensional
gap-free data of the marine system state. However, model data may be far away from
reality. Observations, both in situ and remote sensing, are required to calibrate the models
and reduce the model error or initial ﬁeld error via data assimilation. For each application
area, an integrated monitoring–modeling approach has been recommended as a solution
for generating the key information products. Additionally, addressing and understanding
some of the impacts of OWFs require further basic research on the process level.
5.3. Coordinated Data Management for OWF Applications
The application areas in this paper showed many overlaps and linkages between
variables for which information is required. This provides opportunities for synergies if
the information is obtained with an integrated approach for multiple application areas.
In this way, the observations and modeling approaches can serve multiple purposes,
including providing realistic statuses of the air, sea, biota, and sea bed; model calibration
and validation; improving forecasts using model–data integration. Winds, currents, waves,
and ice (if relevant) are basic variables required for high-frequency (hourly or daily) long-
term monitoring. Water temperature, salinity, and biogeochemical parameters can be
sampled 4–24 times a year, while sediment, contaminants, habitat, and biodiversity only
need to be surveyed 1–4 times a year. The monitoring should be carried out on-site and
between OWF and coasts years before the OWF construction so that the impact of the OWF
can be assessed.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 18 of 23
There is also a demand for an efﬁcient channel or framework for collaboration between
governmental agencies, OWF companies, the research community, and aggregated data
centers. The OWF sector, together with governmental agencies, will need to establish a
framework for declassiﬁcation of the environmental monitoring data created by the OWFs,
similar to that practiced in The BVG Associates Limited in the UK. Community data centers,
such as EMODnet in Europe, should also enhance dialogue and set up an agreement with
the OWF sector so that the part of the open environment observations from the OWF can
be smoothly transferred to the community database.
5.4. Data Transmission, Interoperability, and Accessibility
Data transmission: with the rapid expansion of OWFs and increasing environmental
monitoring needs, efﬁcient, low-cost, and near-real-time data transmission is becoming
increasingly important. This includes the collection of turbine data using the SCADA
system and environmental observations from multi-sensors and then transferring the data
to land. Satellite-based data transfer has been used in this procedure, which is efﬁcient
but expensive. LoRaWAN (Long Range Wireless Area Network) is a low-power mode
with long range (with gateways transmitting and receiving signals over a distance of
over 10 km in open space), which has been tested for coastal water quality, aquaculture,
and turbine monitoring communication, together with IoT technology. Combined with
robotic monitoring platforms, such as drones, UAVs, and ROVs, it is expected that fu-
ture collection and transmission of environmental data in OWF application areas can be
signiﬁcantly improved.
Data interoperability: in situ observations in OWFs and their wake areas are mainly
determined by industrial companies (OWF operators and monitoring service providers) and
research projects. Currently, there is a lack of common data standards between commercial
monitoring (OWF industrial data), research monitoring, and environmental and operational
monitoring. An industrial data standard that is interoperable with environmental and
operational data standards will largely facilitate the use of multi-source observations.
Data accessibility: currently, most of the commercial monitoring data are conﬁdential.
This has hampered research and assessment activities for OWFs. A subset of commercial
monitoring data, especially data for ecological impact assessment, should be made freely
available. This has also been suggested by the Natural Resources Defence Council, a
group of more than 20 environmental organizations, in a concise guide to the science-
based principles and priorities for environmental monitoring that are crucial to advance
responsible offshore wind development in the United States [15].
6. Conclusions
In this study, key information products, solutions for production, and observations
required for the six OWF application areas with high connectivity have been identiﬁed to
plan, operate, and assess the impacts of OWFs on the environment and marine ecosystems.
The application areas cover information services for OWF operation and maintenance,
optimizing monitoring for the protection of submarine cables, prediction of atmospheric
and marine wake and lee effects, impacts on maritime transport and security, contamination
monitoring and assessment, and ecological impact assessment. These application areas
show many examples of spatial and interdisciplinary connectivity between different types
of observation data required for different applications.
A ﬁt-for-purpose observation requirement assessment approach is used ﬁrst to iden-
tify user needs on key information products, then to suggest an integrated modeling–
monitoring solution for deriving the information products, and ﬁnally, to identify obser-
vation demands with regard to the use of observations in implementing the solutions.
The results should show that demands from governmental stakeholders, OWF operators,
and the research community can only be fulﬁlled by multi-scale and multi-disciplinary
observations and dedicated monitoring–modeling integration.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 19 of 23
The identiﬁed observation requirements for the six OWF application areas are sum-
marized in Table A1. Based on the outcomes of this paper, the availability and gaps of the
observations will be analyzed, and the results will be reported as Part II of this study [64].
Supplementary Materials: The following supporting information can be downloaded at: https:
//www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/jmse11081630/s1. Table S1. An overview of required environ-
mental monitoring activities. Table S2. An overview of required metocean monitoring activities and
geological and hydrographical surveys. Table S3. An overview of other required monitoring activities.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization: J.S. and J.S.-S.; methodology: J.S.; analysis: J.S.-S. is
responsible for operation and maintenance related continents, J.S. is responsible for submarine cable
protection and wake and lee effects, L.L. for maritime safety in icing waters and radar aspects, B.M. for
contamination, A.B. and H.W. for OWF impacts on habitat, NIS, ﬁsh, sea bird, and marine mammals;
writing—original draft preparation, all; writing—review and editing, all. All authors have read and
agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: The presented work was ﬁnanced by the European Union in the framework of the project
JERICO S3 (Joint European Research Infrastructure of Coastal Observatories: Science, Service, Sus-
tainability) (Grant agreement ID: 871153). The work of L.L. was also supported by the Academy of
Finland, project number 338150, “Enabling forecasts on radar performance in the marine environ-
ment”, and The International Cooperative Engagement Program for Polar Research.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: No new data were created or analyzed in this study. Data sharing is
not applicable to this article.
Acknowledgments: The presented work was conducted in the framework of the project JERICO S3
(Joint European Research Infrastructure of Coastal Observatories: Science, Service, Sustainability)
supported by the European Union (Grant agreement ID: 871153).
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Appendix A. Required Observations for OWF Applications with High Connectivity
Table A1. Observation requirements for OWF applications with high spatial connectivity.
Application Area &
Information ProductPurpose of Using
ObservationsVariables Spatial Needs Temporal Needs
O&M: Forecast and
related uncertainties of
waves, sea ice, sea level,
currents and icingModel
parameterization,
cal/val, model-data
integration for
optimal forecastWaves
Surface winds
Surface currents
Sea ice properties
Icing, humidity, etc.A few sites per OWF
and connectivity areaHourly daily, real-time
O&M: Long-term and
extreme loadfatigue/extreme
load estimationWaves A few sites per OWF Hourly, lifetime
Sea ice OWF area Daily, lifetime
Sea bed cable
protection: Shear stress,
sediment layer
thickness above cable
for cable protectionInputs to modelBathymetry Model area Static
Sea bed substrate Model area Static
Riverine SPM
dischargeModel area Daily or hourly
Model cal/val,
parameterization,
process studyWaves Cable area Hourly
SPM concentration Model area hourly or daily
Sedimentation rate Model area Static
Sea bed sediment (size,
layer thickness)Cable area Monthly or quarterly
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 20 of 23
Table A1. Cont.
Application Area &
Information ProductPurpose of Using
ObservationsVariables Spatial Needs Temporal Needs
Wake/lee effects:
Weather–ocean–wave–
ice–SPM forecast with
impacts of OWFsCalibrating and
validating models;
optimal forecast by
integrating local
observations and
model forecastWind/current proﬁles,
surface wave spectraOne site per OWF
Hourly for two periods
before/after OWF
deployment; or
for a dedicated
campaign period.ABL variables,
waves, T, SA few sites per OWF
Surface currentsA few sites per farm,
2D distribution
Shoreline positionsCoastal stretch,
OWF downstream
Sea iceA few sites per OWF
and model areaHourly daily
Security and marine
forecasting: Impacts
of OWF on radar
signal propagationFill the spatial
data gaps due to
shadowing effectsPrecipitation, winds,
radar targets3-dimensional Hourly
Contamination: 3D
distribution of metal
and chemical
contaminant
concentrationsCalibrate models,
data assimilation,
impact assessmentConcentration of Al,
Zn, Cd, In, BBA, etc.;
surface currentsSeawater, sediment,
biota, both on-site and
in surrounding areasLong-term, seasonal or
annual sampling
Ecological impacts:
Changes in abiotic
conditions, leading to
changes in biotaTrend detection,
analysis of cause–effect
relations, model
validationNoise, bed topography
and composition,
vertical proﬁles of T, S,
turbidity, light,
population densities of
biota: phytoplankton,
zooplankton, benthos,
ﬁsh, marine
mammals, birdsIn OWFs and their lee
area, vertical proﬁles of
pelagic variablesLong-term consistent
for trend detection,
high temporal
resolution for
representativeness and
detecting interactions
between variables
References
1. WindEurope. Our Energy, Our Future—How Offshore Wind Will Help Europe Go Carbon-Neutral? Colin, W., Ed.; WindEurope:
Brussels, Belgium, 2019. Available online: https://www.windenergy.org (accessed on 10 August 2023).
2. Tikanmäki, M.; Heinonen, J. Estimating extreme level ice and ridge thickness for offshore wind turbine design: Case study
Kriegers Flak. Wind. Energy 2022 ,25, 639–659. [CrossRef]
3. Van der Molen, J.; Garc ía-Garc ía, L.M.; Whomersley, P .; Callaway, A.; Posen, P .E.; Hyder, K. Connectivity of larval stages of
sedentary marine communities between hard substrates and offshore structures in the North Sea. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 14772.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
4. Jaspers, C.; Huwer, B.; Antajan, E.; Hosia, A.; Hinrichsen, H.-H.; Biastoch, A.; Angel, D.; Asmus, R.; Augustin, C.; Bagheri, S.; et al.
Ocean current connectivity propelling the secondary spread of a marine invasive comb jelly across western Eurasia. Glob. Ecol.
Biogeogr. 2018 ,27, 814–827. [CrossRef]
5. Hinrichsen, H.-H.; Piatkowski, U.; Jaspers, C. Sightings of extraordinary marine species in the SW Baltic Sea linked to saline
water inﬂows. J. Sea Res. 2022 ,181, 102175. [CrossRef]
6. Schulz-Stellenﬂeth, J.; Emeis, S.; Dörenkämper, M.; Bange, J.; Cañadillas, B.; Neumann, T.; Schneemann, J.; Weber, I.; Berge, K.Z.;
Platis, A.; et al. Coastal impacts on offshore wind farms—A review focussing on the German Bight area. Meteorol. Z. 2022 ,31,
289–315. [CrossRef]
7. The Crown Estate; The Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult. Guide to an Offshore Wind Farm ; BVG Associates Limited: Swindon,
UK, 2019; p. 128.
8. Baschek, B.; Schroeder, F.; Brix, H.; Riethmüller, R.; Badewien, T.H.; Breitbach, G.; Brügge, B.; Colijn, F.; Doerffer, R.; Eschenbach,
C.; et al. The Coastal Observing System for Northern and Arctic Seas (COSYNA). Ocean Sci. 2017 ,13, 379–410. [CrossRef]
9. Sendra, S.; Parra, L.; Jimenez, J.M.; Garcia, L.; Lloret, J. LoRa-based Network for Water Quality Monitoring in Coastal Areas. Mob.
Networks Appl. 2022 ,27, 1–17. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 21 of 23
10. Wu, T.-D.; Chen, Z.-J.; Chang, C.-C.; Wang, H.-F. Design of a Wireless Sensor Network for Open Ocean Aquaculture Based
on 802.11 ac Wireless Bridge and LoRa ™Technology. In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Electromagnetics:
Applications and Student Innovation Competition (iWEM), Makung, Taiwan, 26–28 August 2020; pp. 1–2. [CrossRef]
11. Martinez-Luengo, M.; Kolios, A.; Wang, L. Structural health monitoring of offshore wind turbines: A review through the Statistical
Pattern Recognition Paradigm. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,64, 91–105. [CrossRef]
12. Míguez, B.M.; Novellino, A.; Vinci, M.; Claus, S.; Calewaert, J.-B.; Vallius, H.; Schmitt, T.; Pititto, A.; Giorgetti, A.; Askew, N.; et al.
The European Marine Observation and Data Network (EMODnet): Visions and Roles of the Gateway to Marine Data in Europe.
Front. Mar. Sci. 2019 ,6, 313. [CrossRef]
13. She, J.; Murawski, J. Developing community marine data service for Blue Growth sectors. J. Oper. Oceanogr. 2019 ,12(Suppl. S2),
S80–S96. [CrossRef]
14. Stephenson, P .J. A Review of Biodiversity Data Needs and Monitoring Protocols for the Offshore Wind Energy Sector in the Baltic Sea and
North Sea ; Report for the Renewables Grid Initiative; Renewables Grid Initiative: Berlin, Germany, 2021.
15. Natural Resources Defence Council. Monitoring of Marine Life during Offshore Wind Energy Development—Guidelines
and Recommendations. NRDC Report. 2023. Available online: https://www.nrdc.org/sites/default/ﬁles/ow_marine-life_
monitoring_guidelines.pdf (accessed on 10 August 2023).
16. Abhinav, K.; Collu, M.; Benjamins, S.; Cai, H.; Hughes, A.; Jiang, B.; Jude, S.; Leithead, W.; Lin, C.; Liu, H.; et al. Offshore
multi-purpose platforms for a Blue Growth: A technological, environmental and socio-economic review. Sci. Total Environ. 2020 ,
734, 138256. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
17. Floeter, J.; van Beusekom, J.E.; Auch, D.; Callies, U.; Carpenter, J.; Dudeck, T.; Eberle, S.; Eckhardt, A.; Gloe, D.; Hänselmann, K.;
et al. Pelagic effects of offshore wind farm foundations in the stratiﬁed North Sea. Prog. Oceanogr. 2017 ,156, 154–173. [CrossRef]
18. V edel, H.; Fischereit, J.; Kaas, E. Including the Effect of Wind T urbines in the Harmonie NWP and Climate Models ; Danish Meteorological
Institute (DMI) Report 22-19; Danish Meteorological Institute: Copenhagen, Denmark, 2022; ISSN 2445-9127; ISBN 978-87-7478-720-4.
19. Carpenter, J.R.; Merckelbach, L.; Callies, U.; Clark, S.; Gaslikova, L.; Baschek, B. Potential Impacts of Offshore Wind Farms on
North Sea Stratiﬁcation. PLoS ONE 2016 ,11, e0160830. [CrossRef]
20. Schultze, L.K.P .; Merckelbach, L.M.; Horstmann, J.; Raasch, S.; Carpenter, J.R. Increased Mixing and Turbulence in the Wake of
Offshore Wind Farm Foundations. J. Geophys. Res. Oceans 2020 ,125, e2019JC015858. [CrossRef]
21. Taormina, B.; Bald, J.; Want, A.; Thouzeau, G.; Lejart, M.; Desroy, N.; Carlier, A. A review of potential impacts of submarine
power cables on the marine environment: Knowledge gaps, recommendations and future directions. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.
2018 ,96, 380–391. [CrossRef]
22. Cao, C.; Ge, Y.; Ren, X.; Peng, X.; Chen, J.; Lu, Z.; Zheng, X. Experimental research on submarine cable monitoring method based
on MEMS sensor. Micro Nano Eng. 2022 ,15, 100130. [CrossRef]
23. Kirchgeorg, T.; Weinberg, I.; Hörnig, M.; Baier, R.; Schmid, M.; Brockmeyer, B. Emissions from corrosion protection systems
of offshore wind farms: Evaluation of the potential impact on the marine environment. Mar. Pollut. Bull. 2018 ,136, 257–268.
[CrossRef]
24. Farr, H.; Ruttenberg, B.; Walter, R.K.; Wang, Y.-H.; White, C. Potential environmental effects of deepwater ﬂoating offshore wind
energy facilities. Ocean Coast. Manag. 2021 ,207, 105611. [CrossRef]
25. NASEM, National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Wind Turbine Generator Impacts to Marine Vessel Radar ; The
National Academies Press: Washington, DC, USA, 2022. [CrossRef]
26. Trockel, D.; Rodriguez-Alegre, I.; Barrick, D.; Whelan, C. Impact Assessment and Mitigation of Offshore Wind Turbines on High
Frequency Coastal Oceanographic Radar ; OCS Study BOEM 2018-053; US Department of the Interior, Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management: Sterling, VA, USA, 2018.
27. U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). 2020. Available online: https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/ﬁles/2020/04/f74/offshore-
wind-turbine-radar-interference-mitigation-webinar-4-20-2020.pdf (accessed on 10 August 2023).
28. Leijnse, H.; Teschl, R.; Paulitsch, H.; Teschl, F.; Holmes, G.; Fodnes Sidselrud, L. OPERA-4: On the Coexistence of Weather Radars
and Wind Turbines. 2022. Available online: https://www.eumetnet.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/OPERA_wind_turbine_
report_20220225.pdf (accessed on 10 August 2023).
29. De Matos e S á, M. Short-Term O&M Planning for Offshore Wind Energy. Ph.D. Thesis, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stock-
holm, Sweden, 2022. Available online: https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1726974/FULLTEXT01.pdf (accessed on
10 August 2023).
30. Taylor, J.W.; Jeon, J. Probabilistic forecasting of wave height for offshore wind turbine maintenance. Eur. J. Oper. Res. 2018 ,267,
877–890. [CrossRef]
31. Energinet. Geological Survey Report Lot2: Thor Offshore Wind Farm Export Cable Route Investigation ; 103282-ENN-MMT-SUR-REP-
SURVLOT2 REVISION B; MMT SWEDEN AB: Västra Frölunda, Sweden, 2020.
32. Timco, G.; Burden, R. An analysis of the shapes of sea ice ridges. Cold Reg. Sci. Technol. 1997 ,25, 65–77. [CrossRef]
33. Brandao, I.; van der Molen, J.; van der Wal, D. Effects of offshore wind farms on suspended particulate matter derived from
satellite remote sensing. Sci. Total Environ. 2023 ,866, 161114. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
34. Djath, B.; Schulz-Stellenﬂeth, J.; Cañadillas, B. Impact of atmospheric stability on X-band and C-band synthetic aperture radar
imagery of offshore windpark wakes. J. Renew. Sustain. Energy 2018 ,10, 043301. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 22 of 23
35. Van Berkel, J.; Burchard, H.; Christensen, A.; Mortensen, L.; Petersen, O.; Thomsen, F. The Effects of Offshore Wind Farms on
Hydrodynamics and Implications for Fishes. Oceanography 2020 ,33, 108–117. [CrossRef]
36. Rennau, H.; Schimmels, S.; Burchard, H. On the effect of structure-induced resistance and mixing on inﬂows into the Baltic Sea: A
numerical model study. Coast. Eng. 2012 ,60, 53–68. [CrossRef]
37. Cazenave, P .W.; Torres, R.; Allen, J.I. Unstructured grid modelling of offshore wind farm impacts on seasonally stratiﬁed shelf
seas. Prog. Oceanogr. 2016 ,145, 25–41. [CrossRef]
38. Christensen, E.D.; Kristensen, S.E.; Deigaard, R. Impact of an offshore wind farm on wave conditions and shoreline development.
In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Coastal Engineering, Seoul, Republic of Korea, 15–20 June 2014.
39. Vihma, T.; Haapala, J.; Matthäus, W. Geophysics of sea ice in the Baltic Sea: A review. Prog. Oceanogr. 2009 ,80, 129–148. [CrossRef]
40. Battisti, L.; Fedrizzi, R.; Brighenti, A.; Laakso, T. Sea ice and icing risk for offshore wind turbines. In Offshore Wind and Other
Marine Renewable Energies in Mediterranean and European Seas, Proceedings of the OWEMES European Seminars, Civitavecchia, Rome,
Italy, 20–22 April 2006 ; OWEMES Association Onlus: Rome, Italy, 2006; ISBN 978-88-8286-283-1.
41. Karvonen, J. Virtual radar ice buoys—A method for measuring ﬁne-scale sea ice drift. Cryosphere 2016 ,10, 29–42. [CrossRef]
42. Oikkonen, A.; Haapala, J.; Lensu, M.; Karvonen, J.; Itkin, P . Small-scale sea ice deformation during N-ICE2015: From compact
pack ice to marginal ice zone. J. Geophys. Res. Oceans 2017 ,122, 5105–5120. [CrossRef]
43. Rautiainen, L.; Tyynelä, J.; Lensu, M.; Siiriä, S.; Vakkari, V .; O’Connor, E.; Hämäläinen, K.; Lonka, H.; Stenbäck, K.; Koistinen, J.;
et al. Utö Observatory for Analysing Atmospheric Ducting Events over Baltic Coastal and Marine Waters. Remote Sens. 2023 ,
15, 2989. [CrossRef]
44. Mangi, S.C. The Impact of Offshore Wind Farms on Marine Ecosystems: A Review Taking an Ecosystem Services Perspective.
Proc. IEEE 2013 ,101, 999–1009. [CrossRef]
45. Simpson, S.D.; Radford, A.N.; Nedelec, S.L.; Ferrari, M.C.O.; Chivers, D.P .; McCormick, M.I.; Meekan, M.G. Anthropogenic noise
increases ﬁsh mortality by predation. Nat. Commun. 2016 ,7, 10544. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
46. Madsen, P .; Wahlberg, M.; Tougaard, J.; Lucke, K.; Tyack, P . Wind turbine underwater noise and marine mammals: Implications
of current knowledge and data needs. Mar. Ecol. Prog. Ser. 2006 ,309, 279–295. [CrossRef]
47. Roberts, L.; Elliott, M. Good or bad vibrations? Impacts of anthropogenic vibration on the marine epibenthos. Sci. Total Environ.
2017 ,595, 255–268. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
48. Edmonds, N.J.; Firmin, C.J.; Goldsmith, D.; Faulkner, R.C.; Wood, D.T. A review of crustacean sensitivity to high amplitude
underwater noise: Data needs for effective risk assessment in relation to UK commercial species. Mar. Pollut. Bull. 2016 ,108, 5–11.
[CrossRef]
49. Roberts, L.; Breithaupt, T. Sensitivity of Crustaceans to Substrate-Borne Vibration. In The Effects of Noise on Aquatic Life II ; Springer:
New York, NY, USA, 2016; pp. 925–931. [CrossRef]
50. Jolivet, A.; Tremblay, R.; Olivier, F.; Gervaise, C.; Sonier, R.; Genard, B.; Chauvaud, L. Validation of trophic and anthropic
underwater noise as settlement trigger in blue mussels. Sci. Rep. 2016 ,6, srep33829. [CrossRef]
51. Stanley, J.A.; Wilkens, S.; McDonald, J.I.; Jeffs, A.G. Vessel noise promotes hull fouling. In The Effects of Noise on Aquatic Life II ;
Springer: New York, NY, USA, 2016; pp. 1097–1104.
52. Solan, M.; Hauton, C.; Godbold, J.A.; Wood, C.L.; Leighton, T.G.; White, P . Anthropogenic sources of underwater sound can
modify how sediment-dwelling invertebrates mediate ecosystem properties. Sci. Rep. 2016 ,6, 20540. [CrossRef]
53. Methratta, E.T.; Dardick, W.R. Meta-Analysis of Finﬁsh Abundance at Offshore Wind Farms. Rev. Fish. Sci. Aquac. 2019 ,27,
242–260. [CrossRef]
54. Alberta, L.; Deschamps, F.; Joliveta, A.; Olivier, F.; Chauvaud, L.; Chauvaud, S. Acurrent synthesis on the effects of electric and
magnetic ﬁelds emitted by submarine power cables on invertebrates. Mar. Environ. Res. 2020 ,159, 104958. [CrossRef]
55. Cresci, A.; Durif, C.M.F.; Larsen, T.; Bjelland, R.; Skiftesvik, A.B.; Browman, H.I. Magnetic ﬁelds produced by subsea high-voltage
direct current cables reduce swimming activity of haddock larvae ( Melanogrammus aegleﬁnus ).PNAS Nexus 2022 ,1, pgac175.
[CrossRef]
56. Cresci, A.; Perrichon, P .; Durif, C.M.; Sørhus, E.; Johnsen, E.; Bjelland, R.; Larsen, T.; Skiftesvik, A.B.; Browman, H.I. Magnetic
ﬁelds generated by the DC cables of offshore wind farms have no effect on spatial distribution or swimming behaviour of lesser
sandeel larvae ( Ammodytes marinus ).Environ. Res. 2022 ,176, 105609.
57. Krijgsveld, K.L.; Akershoek, K.; Schenk, F.; Dijk, F.; Dirksen, S. Collision Risk of Birds with Modern Large Wind Turbines. Ardea
2009 ,97, 357–366. [CrossRef]
58. Johnston, A.; Cook, A.S.C.P .; Wright, L.J.; Humphreys, E.M.; Burton, N.H.K. Modelling ﬂight heights of marine birds to more
accurately assess collision risk with offshore wind turbines. J. Appl. Ecol. 2014 ,51, 31–41. [CrossRef]
59. Vanhellemont, Q.; Ruddick, K. Turbid wakes associated with offshore wind turbines observed with Landsat 8. Remote. Sens.
Environ. 2014 ,145, 105–115. [CrossRef]
60. Bidlot, J.-R. Model Upgrade Improves Ocean Wave Forecasts. ECMWF Newsletter 159. 2019. Available online: https://www.
ecmwf.int/en/newsletter/159/news/model-upgrade-improves-ocean-wave-forecasts (accessed on 10 August 2023).
61. Gorrell, L.; Raubenheimer, B.; Elgar, S.; Guza, R. SWAN predictions of waves observed in shallow water onshore of complex
bathymetry. Coast. Eng. 2011 ,58, 510–516. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11, 1630 23 of 23
62. Golbeck, I.; Li, X.; Janssen, F.; Brüning, T.; Nielsen, J.W.; Huess, V .; Söderkvist, J.; Büchmann, B.; Siiriä, S.-M.; Vähä-Piikkiö, O.;
et al. Uncertainty estimation for operational ocean forecast products—A multi-model ensemble for the North Sea and the Baltic
Sea. Ocean Dyn. 2015 ,65, 1603–1631. [CrossRef]
63. Pujol, M.-I.; Dupuy, S.; Vergara, O.; Rom án, A.S.; Faug ère, Y.; Prandi, P .; Dabat, M.-L.; Dagneaux, Q.; Lievin, M.; Cadier, E.; et al.
Reﬁning the Resolution of DUACS Along-Track Level-3 Sea Level Altimetry Products. Remote. Sens. 2023 ,15, 793. [CrossRef]
64. Schulz-Stellenﬂeth, J.; Blauw, A.; Laakso, L.; Mourre, B.; She, J.; Wehde, H. Fit-for-purpose information in coastal seas with high
connectivity for offshore wind farming applications. Part-II: Gap Analysis and Recommendations. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2023 ,11.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
