energies
Article
Bayesian Based Diagnostic Model for Condition
Based Maintenance of Offshore Wind Farms
Masoud Asgarpour1,2,* and John Dalsgaard Sørensen1
1Department of Civil Engineering, Aalborg University, DK-9220 Aalborg, Denmark; jds@civil.aau.dk
2Vattenfall, Business Area Wind, Analytics & Asset Integrity Management, Hoekenrode 8,
1102 BR Amsterdam, The Netherlands
*Correspondence: masoud.asgarpour@vattenfall.com; Tel.: +31-621-258-748
Received: 20 November 2017; Accepted: 26 January 2018; Published: 29 January 2018
Abstract: Operation and maintenance costs are a major contributor to the Levelized Cost of Energy for
electricity produced by offshore wind and can be signiﬁcantly reduced if existing corrective actions
are performed as efﬁciently as possible and if future corrective actions are avoided by performing
sufﬁcient preventive actions. This paper presents an applied and generic diagnostic model for
fault detection and condition based maintenance of offshore wind components. The diagnostic
model is based on two probabilistic matrices; ﬁrst, a conﬁdence matrix, representing the probability
of detection using each fault detection method, and second, a diagnosis matrix, representing the
individual outcome of each fault detection method. Once the conﬁdence and diagnosis matrices of a
component are deﬁned, the individual diagnoses of each fault detection method are combined into
a ﬁnal verdict on the fault state of that component. Furthermore, this paper introduces a Bayesian
updating model based on observations collected by inspections to decrease the uncertainty of initial
conﬁdence matrix. The framework and implementation of the presented diagnostic model are further
explained within a case study for a wind turbine component based on vibration, temperature, and oil
particle fault detection methods. The last part of the paper will have a discussion of the case study
results and present conclusions.
Keywords: diagnostic; condition based maintenance; offshore wind; O&M; conﬁdence matrix;
diagnosis matrix; Bayesian updating; vibration; temperature; oil particle
1. Introduction
By the end of 2016 wind energy with 153.7 GW installed capacity was the second largest power
generation capacity in Europe [ 1]. The majority (91.6%) of installed wind capacity in Europe is currently
in the form of onshore wind; however, recent rapid cost reductions within offshore wind has motivated
European governments to shift their focus into more and more offshore wind development tenders [ 1].
The offshore wind can be considered as a solid and sustainable business case only if the Levelized Cost
of Energy (LCoE) produced by offshore wind is reduced to its minimum. The LCoE of offshore wind
farms can be reduced by decreasing their CAPEX and OPEX, and increasing their energy yield.
The purpose of this paper is to provide a contribution to OPEX reduction and energy yield
increase of offshore wind farms by means of operation and maintenance (O&M) cost reductions. It is
possible to reduce the O&M costs of offshore wind farms if optimal O&M planning and decision
models for optimization of O&M resources and work orders are used, and future component failures
are avoided. In the past decades, several studies on O&M planning and optimization of offshore wind
farms are carried out. In [ 2], an extensive overview on 246 mainly academic studies focused on O&M
planning and optimization of wind energy assets published in the period 1997 to 2016 is given. Earlier
studies on offshore wind O&M optimization are typically based on long-term averaging of O&M costs.
In [3], an overview on mean-value and Monte Carlo based O&M cost models for long-term O&M
Energies 2018 ,11, 300; doi:10.3390/en11020300 www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 2 of 17
optimization of offshore wind farms is given, see [ 4–9] for illustrative case studies on offshore wind
O&M cost models.
In recent years, more advanced models such as Markov, Petri net, Bayesian, and Artiﬁcial
Intelligence (AI) models are used in O&M optimization of wind energy assets. In [ 10], the application
of Markov models for downtime reduction and in [ 11], the application of Markov models for O&M
optimization of wind turbines are discussed. In [ 12–14], the O&M modelling and optimization of wind
turbines based on Petri nets is investigated. In [ 15–18] and Section 2.4 of this paper, the application
of Bayesian risk-based methods for optimal O&M planning of offshore wind turbines is discussed.
Furthermore, in [ 19,20], the application of Artiﬁcial Neural Networks (ANNs) for O&M optimization
of wind turbines and in [ 21], intelligent maintenance planning of wind energy assets based on a
combination of AI models are studied.
Next to optimal O&M planning and decision models, avoiding future component failures will
reduce the O&M costs of offshore wind farms. The majority of O&M costs of offshore wind farms is
due to unplanned failures of wind farm components, and subsequently their corrective maintenance
effort [ 6]. The O&M costs can be signiﬁcantly reduced if the faults of wind farm components can
be predicted (before they occur) or be detected (as soon as they occur and before they lead to a
complete failure). The focus of this paper is only fault detection of components and not their fault
prediction. In [ 22], an overview of applicable prognostic models for offshore wind turbines is give,
see [23,24], [25–28] for illustrative case studies on fault prediction of wind turbine components.
The state-of-the-art and future trends of fault detection and condition monitoring of wind turbine
components are extensively reviewed in [ 29–39]. In [ 29], a systematic review on applicable fault
detection techniques for main wind turbine components is given. In [ 30–32], speciﬁc diagnostic
techniques for low-speed machinery, gearbox and bearings are discussed respectively. In [ 33],
a thorough introduction into vibration and SCADA based fault detection methods is given and
based on a cost-beneﬁt analysis a recommended scope of condition monitoring for wind turbines is
discussed. In [ 34], applicable fault detection methods for each failure mode of each main system and
sub-component of wind turbines are discussed. In [ 35], an overview of condition monitoring sensors
and applicable signal processing methods is given and a fault tree for critical failure modes of wind
turbine components is brieﬂy discussed. In [ 36], a survey of 23 commercial condition monitoring
systems is discussed, and it is concluded that future condition monitoring systems should be applicable
to all wind turbine types capable of reliable and low-cost fault detection of all mechanical and electrical
sub-components. In [ 37], applicable fault detection methods for main systems of wind turbines are
brieﬂy discussed, and it is concluded that future studies should conduct more research on multi-agent
fault detection methods. In [ 38], applicable condition monitoring and fault detection methods for both
main systems and sub-components of wind turbines within several illustrative examples are discussed.
In [39], condition monitoring beneﬁt for offshore wind turbines based on a variety probabilistic fault
detection methods is quantiﬁed.
In [40], an overview on failure frequency and maintenance effort of offshore wind turbine
components is given. As shown in Figure 1, based on failure data over a ﬁve-year period from
350 offshore wind turbines, authors in [ 40] have concluded that on average an offshore wind turbine
has 8.3 failures per year, of which 6.2 are minor repairs, 1.1 are major repairs and 0.3 are major
replacements, while 0.7 failures per turbine per year have no cost data so cannot be categorized.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 3 of 17
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  3 of 17 
  
Figure 1.  Failure frequency of offshore wind turbine components categorized by their maintenance 
effort [40]. 
As highlighted in [36,37], existing academic literature pays limited attention to generic and 
applied diagnostic models applicable for real-time fault detection of all mechanical and electrical 
wind farm components. This paper introduces a generic diagnostic model applicable for all electrical 
and mechanical wind turbines and the balance of plant components of an offshore wind farm.  The following will discuss first the probabilistic co nfidence and diagnosis matrices required for this 
diagnostic model, and then present a case study for condition based maintenance of offshore wind components. The last section contains  a discussion of the case study results and presents conclusions. 
2. Diagnostic Model 
According to EN 13306:2010 [41], fault is the “ state of an item characterized by inability to perform a 
required function, excluding the inabilit y during preventive maintenance or other planned actions, or due to 
lack of external resources ” .  F a u l t s  i n  w i n d  f a r m  c o m p o n e n t s  are usually pre-existing, meaning that 
there is an opportunity to detect faults before they lead to a failure. Figure 2 illustrates the state of a 
component with undetected faults leading to failure and detected faults leading to condition based maintenance. 
 
Figure 2.  State of a component with undetected faults (leading to failure) and detected faults (leading 
to condition based maintenance). 
Diagnostic or fault detection of offshore wind  turbines and balance of plant components is 
mainly done for mechanical and electrical components as their faults can rapidly (days to months) lead to a complete failure, causing high maintenanc e costs and/or long downti me. Figure 1 also shows 
Figure 1. Failure frequency of offshore wind turbine components categorized by their maintenance
effort [40].
As highlighted in [ 36,37], existing academic literature pays limited attention to generic and
applied diagnostic models applicable for real-time fault detection of all mechanical and electrical wind
farm components. This paper introduces a generic diagnostic model applicable for all electrical and
mechanical wind turbines and the balance of plant components of an offshore wind farm. The following
will discuss ﬁrst the probabilistic conﬁdence and diagnosis matrices required for this diagnostic model,
and then present a case study for condition based maintenance of offshore wind components. The last
section contains a discussion of the case study results and presents conclusions.
2. Diagnostic Model
According to EN 13306:2010 [ 41], fault is the “ state of an item characterized by inability to perform a
required function, excluding the inability during preventive maintenance or other planned actions, or due to lack
of external resources ”. Faults in wind farm components are usually pre-existing, meaning that there is an
opportunity to detect faults before they lead to a failure. Figure 2 illustrates the state of a component
with undetected faults leading to failure and detected faults leading to condition based maintenance.
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  3 of 17 
  
Figure 1.  Failure frequency of offshore wind turbine components categorized by their maintenance 
effort [40]. 
As highlighted in [36,37], existing academic literature pays limited attention to generic and 
applied diagnostic models applicable for real-time fault detection of all mechanical and electrical 
wind farm components. This paper introduces a generic diagnostic model applicable for all electrical 
and mechanical wind turbines and the balance of plant components of an offshore wind farm.  The following will discuss first the probabilistic co nfidence and diagnosis matrices required for this 
diagnostic model, and then present a case study for condition based maintenance of offshore wind components. The last section contains  a discussion of the case study results and presents conclusions. 
2. Diagnostic Model 
According to EN 13306:2010 [41], fault is the “ state of an item characterized by inability to perform a 
required function, excluding the inabilit y during preventive maintenance or other planned actions, or due to 
lack of external resources ” .  F a u l t s  i n  w i n d  f a r m  c o m p o n e n t s  are usually pre-existing, meaning that 
there is an opportunity to detect faults before they lead to a failure. Figure 2 illustrates the state of a 
component with undetected faults leading to failure and detected faults leading to condition based maintenance. 
 
Figure 2.  State of a component with undetected faults (leading to failure) and detected faults (leading 
to condition based maintenance). 
Diagnostic or fault detection of offshore wind  turbines and balance of plant components is 
mainly done for mechanical and electrical components as their faults can rapidly (days to months) lead to a complete failure, causing high maintenanc e costs and/or long downti me. Figure 1 also shows 
Figure 2. State of a component with undetected faults (leading to failure) and detected faults (leading to
condition based maintenance).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 4 of 17
Diagnostic or fault detection of offshore wind turbines and balance of plant components is mainly
done for mechanical and electrical components as their faults can rapidly (days to months) lead to a
complete failure, causing high maintenance costs and/or long downtime. Figure 1 also shows that
major repair or replacement is mostly done for mechanical and electrical components of offshore
wind turbines. This paper does not explicitly consider the offshore wind structural components
such as blades, tower, or foundation since they are designed according to high safety factors, and
typically their annual service will detect and maintain their potential faults, before these might lead to
a complete failure.
As discussed in the previous section, in the wind industry, the lack of a generic diagnostic model
suitable for all wind turbine and component types is evident. Since no single fault detection method is
able to detect faults of all component types accurately, a hybrid of several individual non-correlated
fault detection methods, or diagnostic agents for each component, or component failure mode are
required. Figure 3, presents a framework of such a generic multi-agent diagnostic model for fault
detection of one mechanical or electrical wind farm component.
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  4 of 17 
 that major repair or replacement is mostly done for mechanical and electrical components of 
offshore wind turbines. This paper does not exp licitly consider the offs hore wind structural 
components such as blades, tower, or foundation since they are designed according to high safety 
factors, and typically their annual service will dete ct and maintain their potential faults, before these 
might lead to a complete failure.  
As discussed in the previous section, in the wi nd industry, the lack of a generic diagnostic 
model suitable for all wind turbine and component types is evident. Since no single fault detection method is able to detect faults of all componen t types accurately, a hybrid  of several individual 
non-correlated fault detection methods, or diagno stic agents for each component, or component 
failure mode are required. Figure 3, presents a fr amework of such a generic multi-agent diagnostic 
model for fault detection of one mechanical or electrical wind farm component. 
 
Figure 3.  Framework of a multi-agent diagnostic model for one wind farm component. 
As shown in Figure 3, it is assumed that faults of this component can be optimally detected by a 
hybrid of three diagnostic agents or fault detect ion methods. The probability of detection of each 
diagnostic agent is defined within a Confidence Matrix. Once the individual diagnosis of each 
diagnostic agent is estimated and placed in a Diagnosis Matrix, the total probability theorem can be 
used to incorporate all pr obabilistic fault detection results into on e final verdict. The following sections 
will further discuss both confidence and diagnoses matrices. 
2.1. Confidence Matrix 
A confidence or Probability of Detection (PoD) ma trix for diagnostics is a measure for reliability 
or confidence level of diagnostic agents for a given component or component failure mode. At the 
beginning of the wind farm lifetime, since no prio r operational data is available, the confidence 
matrix should be defined based on experts’ experience on confidence level of each diagnostic agent 
f o r  e a c h  c o m p o n e n t .  S i m i l a r l y ,  i t  i s  p o s s i b l e  t o  use operational data of the same components in 
similar operational wind farms to estimate the initial confidence matrix.  
Once sufficient operational data is available, based on Bayes’ rule and correctness of each fault 
detection agent determined by inspections, the initial or prior confidence matrix can be updated. 
  
Figure 3. Framework of a multi-agent diagnostic model for one wind farm component.
As shown in Figure 3, it is assumed that faults of this component can be optimally detected
by a hybrid of three diagnostic agents or fault detection methods. The probability of detection of
each diagnostic agent is deﬁned within a Conﬁdence Matrix. Once the individual diagnosis of each
diagnostic agent is estimated and placed in a Diagnosis Matrix, the total probability theorem can be
used to incorporate all probabilistic fault detection results into one ﬁnal verdict. The following sections
will further discuss both conﬁdence and diagnoses matrices.
2.1. Conﬁdence Matrix
A conﬁdence or Probability of Detection (PoD) matrix for diagnostics is a measure for reliability
or conﬁdence level of diagnostic agents for a given component or component failure mode. At the
beginning of the wind farm lifetime, since no prior operational data is available, the conﬁdence matrix
should be deﬁned based on experts’ experience on conﬁdence level of each diagnostic agent for
each component. Similarly, it is possible to use operational data of the same components in similar
operational wind farms to estimate the initial conﬁdence matrix.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 5 of 17
Once sufﬁcient operational data is available, based on Bayes’ rule and correctness of each fault
detection agent determined by inspections, the initial or prior conﬁdence matrix can be updated.
2.2. Diagnosis Matrix
The probability diagnosis matrix is a hybrid placeholder for individual probabilistic diagnosis of
each diagnostic agent. The diagnosis of each diagnostic agent can be determined using several different
lifetime estimation techniques, e.g., a stochastic, physical, data-driven, or Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI)
model. The diagnosis of components can be presented using a stochastic model if sufﬁcient information
on the physics of failure is available, or if a diagnostic model with minimum implementation effort is
desired. The diagnosis of critical components can be presented using a physical or data-driven model
if higher level of accuracy is needed. In [ 42], a review on statistical data-driven approaches for lifetime
estimation techniques is given. In [ 43], optimal selection of a lifetime estimation technique based on
several classiﬁcation methods and process ﬂow diagrams is discussed. In [ 44], an overview of lifetime
estimation techniques with focus on applications to wind turbines is given.
This paper only considers stochastic diagnosis models for fault detection of mechanical and
electrical components. In [ 45–48], stochastic reliability models based on Weibull distribution, Gamma
distribution and Poisson process are discussed. In the diagnostic model discussed here, an exponential
CDF presents the diagnosis of anomaly detection agents:
P(D=HealthyjA)=e lADA
P(D=FaultyjA)=1 e lADA(1)
The Nomenclature appendix of this paper presents the variables used in equations. The diagnosis
exponential rates of anomaly detection agents can be estimated based on experts’ opinion or existing
operational data of similar offshore operational wind farms. For instance, the exponential rate of a
diagnostic agent can be calculated as:
lA= ln(1 P)
Deviation(2)
The Deviation in Equation (2) is a DA, in which an expert is conﬁdent that a component
fault is certain. Section 3 of this paper further explains, within a case study, formulation of the
diagnostic matrix.
2.3. Total Probability of Fault
Once the probability conﬁdence and diagnosis matrices are both known, based on a hybrid of
several non-correlated diagnostic agents and using the total probability theorem, the probability of a
component being in the faulty state can be calculated as:
P(D=Faulty )=i=n
å
i=1P(D=FaultyjAi)P(Ai) (3)
2.4. Decision Model
Once the total probability of a component being in fault condition is estimated, a decision has to
be made if an inspection is to be performed to conﬁrm the fault and, subsequently, to repair/maintain
the fault. This process can be formulated within a Bayesian decision model where the objective is to
assist in decision-making that minimizes the total expected remaining lifetime O&M costs. Figure 4
shows a framework for a risk based Bayesian decision model to minimize the total expected costs in
the remaining lifetime of an offshore wind farm, based on [15].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 6 of 17
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  6 of 17 
  
Figure 4.  Framework of a risk based Bayesian decision  model for optimal O&M planning. Reproduced 
with permission of John Wiley and Sons [15] . 
This paper does not consider the ‘i nitial design (z)’ phase shown in  Figure 4. In this paper, the 
‘inspection/monitoring plan (e)’ phase of Figure 4 corresponds to the planning of which diagnostic 
agents to use. The ‘inspection/moni toring result (S)’ corresponds to the output from the diagnostic 
agents. Based on that, the probability of faulty cond ition is estimated by Equation (3). The decision 
rule d(S) is related to the decision of whether or not it is necessary to perform an inspection and a 
possible repair maintenance action. The decision rule is related to the probability of fault exceeding a given probability threshold. The ‘state of nature’ represents all other uncertainties more or less directly influencing the condition of a given compon ent, e.g., wind speed. The total expected benefit 
(W) of the model is the total benefit gained minus to tal costs in the remaining part of lifetime after 
the time of the decision. 
At each time step during the lif etime of an offshore wind farm, an updated decision (e) on which 
agents to use and which probability thre shold to use in the decision rule d(S) for repair/maintenance. 
These decisions are made so as to optimize the total expected cost-benef it (W) in the remaining 
lifetime. Additionally, using Bayesian updating th e probabilistic model is continuously updated when 
new information becomes available, see the next section.  
2.5. Posterior Confidence 
If an inspection outcome confirms that the stat e of the component is Faulty, then a condition 
based maintenance work order shou ld be created to maintain the component before its failure. 
Additionally, since sufficient operational data is available after this inspection, the prior estimations 
of the confidence matrix can be updated by Bayesian updating: 
(ܲ
ܣ|ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ=)ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ |ܣ(′ܲ)ܣ)
)ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ ൘  (4)
The )ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ  in Equation (3) is the total probability of a component being in a faulty 
condition, based on diagnosis of all diagnostic agents calculated using Equation (3). 
A posterior probability is a condit ional probability taking into acco unt all available observations 
on the state of a variable. The updated posterior co nfidence levels of diagnostic agents should be 
used for future diagnostics to reduce the model unce rtainty and to enhance the fault detection accuracy. 
  
Figure 4. Framework of a risk based Bayesian decision model for optimal O&M planning. Reproduced
with permission of John Wiley and Sons [15].
This paper does not consider the ‘initial design (z)’ phase shown in Figure 4. In this paper, the
‘inspection/monitoring plan (e)’ phase of Figure 4 corresponds to the planning of which diagnostic
agents to use. The ‘inspection/monitoring result (S)’ corresponds to the output from the diagnostic
agents. Based on that, the probability of faulty condition is estimated by Equation (3). The decision
rule d(S) is related to the decision of whether or not it is necessary to perform an inspection and a
possible repair maintenance action. The decision rule is related to the probability of fault exceeding a
given probability threshold. The ‘state of nature’ represents all other uncertainties more or less directly
inﬂuencing the condition of a given component, e.g., wind speed. The total expected beneﬁt (W) of the
model is the total beneﬁt gained minus total costs in the remaining part of lifetime after the time of
the decision.
At each time step during the lifetime of an offshore wind farm, an updated decision (e) on which
agents to use and which probability threshold to use in the decision rule d(S) for repair/maintenance.
These decisions are made so as to optimize the total expected cost-beneﬁt (W) in the remaining lifetime.
Additionally, using Bayesian updating the probabilistic model is continuously updated when new
information becomes available, see the next section.
2.5. Posterior Conﬁdence
If an inspection outcome conﬁrms that the state of the component is Faulty, then a condition based
maintenance work order should be created to maintain the component before its failure. Additionally,
since sufﬁcient operational data is available after this inspection, the prior estimations of the conﬁdence
matrix can be updated by Bayesian updating:
P(AjD=Faulty )=P(D=FaultyjA)P0(A)/P(D=Faulty ) (4)
The P(D=Faulty )in Equation (3) is the total probability of a component being in a faulty
condition, based on diagnosis of all diagnostic agents calculated using Equation (3).
A posterior probability is a conditional probability taking into account all available observations
on the state of a variable. The updated posterior conﬁdence levels of diagnostic agents should be used
for future diagnostics to reduce the model uncertainty and to enhance the fault detection accuracy.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 7 of 17
2.6. Diagnostic Model
Now that conﬁdence and diagnosis matrices and a decision model are introduced, and the total
probability of fault and the posterior conﬁdence levels can be calculated, a diagnostic model can be
deﬁned. Figure 5 outlines a framework for a diagnostic model with Bayesian updating for offshore
wind components.
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  7 of 17 
 2.6. Diagnostic Model 
Now that confidence and diagnosis matrices and a decision model are introduced, and the total 
probability of fault and the posterior confidence levels can be calculated, a diagnostic model can be 
defined. Figure 5 outlines a framework for a diagnostic model with Bayesian updating for offshore 
wind components. 
 
Figure 5.  Framework for a diagnostic model with Bayesian updating for offshore wind components. 
The next section presents a case study for fault detection and condition based maintenance of an 
offshore wind turbine component based on three diagnostic agents. 
3. Case Study 
As discussed in the previous section, instead of assessing results of each diagnostic agent 
individually, a hybrid or multi-agent diagnostic approach can be used, which takes into account the results of all available diagnostic agents at once and,  as a result, the diagnosis (state of the component) 
is determined. This case study discusses the outl ine and implementation steps of this diagnostic 
model for an offshore wind turbine’s main bearing, based on three diagnostic agents. In this case study, it is assumed that vibration, temperature, and oil particle are independent diagnostic agents 
for this wind turbine main bearing. As a result  from each agent, the diagnosis (state of the 
component) can be estimated as a probability. The following sections will briefly explain these diagnostic methods. 
3.1. Vibration Based 
Vibration analysis is the most re liable method for diagnostic of dr ivetrain mechanical components. 
The vibration analysis is based on data from 6 to 10 accelerometer, velocity, and displacements sensors installed on bearings, shafts, gearbox, coupling, and generator of wind turbines. These 
sensors are not a part of SCADA system and, theref ore, a separate network infrastructure for their 
data acquisition, transfer, and storage is required. As illustrated in Figure 6, the vibration analysis can be done in time domain (such as trend anal ysis) or in frequency domain (such as envelop 
analysis). In [33], the time and frequency domain analyses for vibration based condition monitoring are further explained. In [38], several case studies for vibration based condition monitoring of two research wind turbines are presented. 
Figure 5. Framework for a diagnostic model with Bayesian updating for offshore wind components.
The next section presents a case study for fault detection and condition based maintenance of an
offshore wind turbine component based on three diagnostic agents.
3. Case Study
As discussed in the previous section, instead of assessing results of each diagnostic agent
individually, a hybrid or multi-agent diagnostic approach can be used, which takes into account
the results of all available diagnostic agents at once and, as a result, the diagnosis (state of the
component) is determined. This case study discusses the outline and implementation steps of this
diagnostic model for an offshore wind turbine’s main bearing, based on three diagnostic agents. In this
case study, it is assumed that vibration, temperature, and oil particle are independent diagnostic agents
for this wind turbine main bearing. As a result from each agent, the diagnosis (state of the component)
can be estimated as a probability. The following sections will brieﬂy explain these diagnostic methods.
3.1. Vibration Based
Vibration analysis is the most reliable method for diagnostic of drivetrain mechanical components.
The vibration analysis is based on data from 6 to 10 accelerometer, velocity, and displacements sensors
installed on bearings, shafts, gearbox, coupling, and generator of wind turbines. These sensors
are not a part of SCADA system and, therefore, a separate network infrastructure for their data
acquisition, transfer, and storage is required. As illustrated in Figure 6, the vibration analysis can
be done in time domain (such as trend analysis) or in frequency domain (such as envelop analysis).
In [33], the time and frequency domain analyses for vibration based condition monitoring are further
explained. In [ 38], several case studies for vibration based condition monitoring of two research wind
turbines are presented.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 8 of 17
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 17 
  
Figure 6.  Time and frequency domain analyses for vibration based diagnostic [3]. 
Once the state of a component deviates consider ably from its healthy vibration signature, a 
warning is generated. The vibration based analysis can detect drivetrain mechanical faults a few 
months prior to their potential failure, which provides sufficient time for preparation and planning of the subsequent condition based work orders. 
In the wind industry vibration analysis is inco rrectly known as the Condition Monitoring System 
(CMS) since it is the most used CMS for wind turbine components. However, besides vibration based sensors there are several other wind turbine sensors which can be used for condition monitoring, such as temperature or hydraulic oil sensors. 
3.2. Temperature Based 
The majority of drivetrain components of offsho re wind turbines are equipped with temperature 
sensors. The data acquisition of  temperature sensors is typically handled by wind turbine SCADA 
system. This makes temperature analysis an interesting diagnostic method as it can be done for almost any turbine platform without demanding any additional sensor or network infrastructure. 
There are several methods for temperature analysis of drivetrain components. A typical 
temperature analysis is based on automated anomal y detection. Once the real-time temperature of a 
component is considerably higher than its temperatur e profile, a warning is generated. The temperature 
of a component is dependent on turbine accumulat ed active power and weather conditions such as 
ambient temperature or humidity. It is possible to  calculate the temperature profile of a component 
based on data-driven models or AI models. Figure 7 shows the temperature sensor data of the main 
bearing of the offshore wind turbine used in this case study.  
As seen in Figure 7, prior to the main bearing failure, significant (more than 20 degrees) 
temperature deviations are observed. The temperatur e based diagnostic of this bearing could be 
used to initiate condition based maintenance to repair the bearing fault prior to its complete failure.  
Another possible temperature analysis technique is to compare real-time component temperature 
signals of a wind turbine to its neighbor wind turbines with similar wake condition. In [49], a case study for temperature based condition monitoring of wind turbine gearbox is discussed in detail.  
The temperature analysis can predict faults of me chanical and electrical components from a few 
months to a few weeks prior to their potential failure. Once an anomaly in the temperature of a 
component, a temperature based warning is triggered. 
Figure 6. Time and frequency domain analyses for vibration based diagnostic [3].
Once the state of a component deviates considerably from its healthy vibration signature,
a warning is generated. The vibration based analysis can detect drivetrain mechanical faults a few
months prior to their potential failure, which provides sufﬁcient time for preparation and planning of
the subsequent condition based work orders.
In the wind industry vibration analysis is incorrectly known as the Condition Monitoring System
(CMS) since it is the most used CMS for wind turbine components. However, besides vibration based
sensors there are several other wind turbine sensors which can be used for condition monitoring, such
as temperature or hydraulic oil sensors.
3.2. Temperature Based
The majority of drivetrain components of offshore wind turbines are equipped with temperature
sensors. The data acquisition of temperature sensors is typically handled by wind turbine SCADA
system. This makes temperature analysis an interesting diagnostic method as it can be done for almost
any turbine platform without demanding any additional sensor or network infrastructure.
There are several methods for temperature analysis of drivetrain components. A typical
temperature analysis is based on automated anomaly detection. Once the real-time temperature of a
component is considerably higher than its temperature proﬁle, a warning is generated. The temperature
of a component is dependent on turbine accumulated active power and weather conditions such as
ambient temperature or humidity. It is possible to calculate the temperature proﬁle of a component
based on data-driven models or AI models. Figure 7 shows the temperature sensor data of the main
bearing of the offshore wind turbine used in this case study.
As seen in Figure 7, prior to the main bearing failure, signiﬁcant (more than 20 degrees)
temperature deviations are observed. The temperature based diagnostic of this bearing could be
used to initiate condition based maintenance to repair the bearing fault prior to its complete failure.
Another possible temperature analysis technique is to compare real-time component temperature
signals of a wind turbine to its neighbor wind turbines with similar wake condition. In [ 49], a case
study for temperature based condition monitoring of wind turbine gearbox is discussed in detail.
The temperature analysis can predict faults of mechanical and electrical components from a few
months to a few weeks prior to their potential failure. Once an anomaly in the temperature of a
component, a temperature based warning is triggered.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 9 of 17
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  9 of 17 
  
Figure 7.  Temperature based diagnostic of the main bearing of the wind turbine used in the case study. 
3.3. Oil Based 
The oil analysis is based on the lubrication syst em of the drivetrain components. The hydraulic 
oil analysis can be done using online oil sensors (such as oil pressure, temperature, or particle counter) 
or offline oil samples (to check oil cleanliness or oxidation).  
The offline oil samples and online oi l pressure data can be used for fault detection of the lubrication 
system. However, the oil temperature and particle counter data can be used for fault detection of 
drivetrain components. Similar to  temperate analysis, oil temperature anomaly detection can be 
triggered once the oil temperature deviates signific antly from the oil temperature profile. In [33], 
several illustrative examples for oil based condition monitoring of wind turbines are given. 
The oil particle counter data can be used to monitor a sudden increase of particles (such as wear 
debris) created by degradation of drivetrain mechanical components. An automated oil analysis will generate an oil based warning once the oil particle rises unexpectedly in a given time.  
Limited increase of oil particles (e.g., increase of 10 to 50 oil particles per month) is due to 
expected fatigue of mechanical drivetrain components, but sudden increase of oil particles (e.g., increase of 200 oil particles in one hour) is most likely caused by sudden degradation of a drivetrain component. Figure 8 visualizes the oil particle sensor  data of the offshore wi nd turbine used in this 
case study. As highlighted by orange dashed lines in Figure 8, the number of oil particles in the 
hydraulic oil of the drivetrain of this offshore wind turbine increases suddenly by 136, which is typically a clear sign for sudden degradation of one or several drivetrain components. 
Similar to temperature signals, oil pressure, oil temperature, and particle  counting sensor data 
are collected by the SCADA system. The oil particle counters can detect faults from a few weeks to a 
few days prior to their potential failure and are typically very reliable. However, the oil particle results cannot identify the exact location of the fault, and typically the short time period between the diagnosis and potential failure does not allow proper  preparation and planning for follow up condition 
based work orders. 
Besides the discussed diagnostic methods, seve ral other less well-known fault detection methods 
are available (such as visual, acoustic, or ultrasonic), which are not covered in this case study. Now 
that diagnostic agents are briefly explained, the confidence and diagnosis matrices associated with these three diagnostic agents can be formulated. 
Figure 7. Temperature based diagnostic of the main bearing of the wind turbine used in the case study.
3.3. Oil Based
The oil analysis is based on the lubrication system of the drivetrain components. The hydraulic
oil analysis can be done using online oil sensors (such as oil pressure, temperature, or particle counter)
or ofﬂine oil samples (to check oil cleanliness or oxidation).
The ofﬂine oil samples and online oil pressure data can be used for fault detection of the lubrication
system. However, the oil temperature and particle counter data can be used for fault detection of
drivetrain components. Similar to temperate analysis, oil temperature anomaly detection can be
triggered once the oil temperature deviates signiﬁcantly from the oil temperature proﬁle. In [ 33],
several illustrative examples for oil based condition monitoring of wind turbines are given.
The oil particle counter data can be used to monitor a sudden increase of particles (such as wear
debris) created by degradation of drivetrain mechanical components. An automated oil analysis will
generate an oil based warning once the oil particle rises unexpectedly in a given time.
Limited increase of oil particles (e.g., increase of 10 to 50 oil particles per month) is due to expected
fatigue of mechanical drivetrain components, but sudden increase of oil particles (e.g., increase of
200 oil particles in one hour) is most likely caused by sudden degradation of a drivetrain component.
Figure 8 visualizes the oil particle sensor data of the offshore wind turbine used in this case study.
As highlighted by orange dashed lines in Figure 8, the number of oil particles in the hydraulic oil of
the drivetrain of this offshore wind turbine increases suddenly by 136, which is typically a clear sign
for sudden degradation of one or several drivetrain components.
Similar to temperature signals, oil pressure, oil temperature, and particle counting sensor data are
collected by the SCADA system. The oil particle counters can detect faults from a few weeks to a few
days prior to their potential failure and are typically very reliable. However, the oil particle results
cannot identify the exact location of the fault, and typically the short time period between the diagnosis
and potential failure does not allow proper preparation and planning for follow up condition based
work orders.
Besides the discussed diagnostic methods, several other less well-known fault detection methods
are available (such as visual, acoustic, or ultrasonic), which are not covered in this case study. Now
that diagnostic agents are brieﬂy explained, the conﬁdence and diagnosis matrices associated with
these three diagnostic agents can be formulated.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 10 of 17
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  10 of 17 
  
Figure 8.  Oil particle based diagnostic of the drivetrain of the wind turbine used in this case study. 
3.4. Initial Confidence Matrix 
In Section 2.1, it was explained that the initial confidence matrix can be defined based on the 
available operational data of the sa me components in similar operatio nal wind farms. Table 1 provides 
the fault detection history of the main bearing used in this case study based on operational data of similar offshore wind farms. According to Table 1, in two occasions out of th e total 10 available main 
bearing fault detection records, the temperature ba sed diagnostic method has detected the bearing 
fault earlier than the vibration or oil particle based diagnostic methods. 
Table 1.  Fault detection history of the main bearing used  in this case study based on operational data 
of similar offshore wind farms. 
Component  Number of Early Fault Detections  
Vibration Based Temperature Based Oil Particle Based Total 
Main Bearing 3 2 5 10 
Now, based on the fault detection history given in Ta ble 1, the initial confidence level of vibration, 
temperature, and oil particle based diagnostic agents for detection of faults in a wind turbine main 
bearing can be estimated: 
(ܲܣ௏)஻௘௔௥௜௡௚=310ൗ=0 . 3 , (ܲܣ்)஻௘௔௥௜௡௚=210ൗ=0 . 2 , (ܲܣை)஻௘௔௥௜௡௚=510ൗ=0 . 5  (5)
Using inspection based observations in a Bayesian  updating model, the uncertainty of the initial 
confidence matrix can be significantly reduced. Furthe rmore, as discussed in Section 2.4 of this paper, 
the update of the confidence matrix can be incorp orated into the update of a risk based Bayesian 
decision model. 
3.5. Diagnosis Matrix 
The next step is to define a diagnosis matrix for this diagnostic model. To do so, first the 
exponential rates of temperature and oil particle based diagnostic agents should be estimated. In this case study, it is assumed that once the temperature deviation of the main bearing is larger than 20 degrees or once increase in oil particles of the dr ivetrain rises above 200, then with 90% probability 
the main bearing is in fault condition. Therefore, using Equation (2), the exponential rates of the 
temperature and oil particle based diagnostic agents for the main bearing can be calculated as: 
Figure 8. Oil particle based diagnostic of the drivetrain of the wind turbine used in this case study.
3.4. Initial Conﬁdence Matrix
In Section 2.1, it was explained that the initial conﬁdence matrix can be deﬁned based on the
available operational data of the same components in similar operational wind farms. Table 1 provides
the fault detection history of the main bearing used in this case study based on operational data of
similar offshore wind farms. According to Table 1, in two occasions out of the total 10 available main
bearing fault detection records, the temperature based diagnostic method has detected the bearing
fault earlier than the vibration or oil particle based diagnostic methods.
Table 1. Fault detection history of the main bearing used in this case study based on operational data
of similar offshore wind farms.
ComponentNumber of Early Fault Detections
Vibration Based Temperature Based Oil Particle Based Total
Main Bearing 3 2 5 10
Now, based on the fault detection history given in Table 1, the initial conﬁdence level of vibration,
temperature, and oil particle based diagnostic agents for detection of faults in a wind turbine main
bearing can be estimated:
P(AV)Bearing =3/10=0.3,P(AT)Bearing =2/10=0.2,P(AO)Bearing =5/10=0.5 (5)
Using inspection based observations in a Bayesian updating model, the uncertainty of the initial
conﬁdence matrix can be signiﬁcantly reduced. Furthermore, as discussed in Section 2.4 of this paper,
the update of the conﬁdence matrix can be incorporated into the update of a risk based Bayesian
decision model.
3.5. Diagnosis Matrix
The next step is to deﬁne a diagnosis matrix for this diagnostic model. To do so, ﬁrst the
exponential rates of temperature and oil particle based diagnostic agents should be estimated. In this
case study, it is assumed that once the temperature deviation of the main bearing is larger than
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 11 of 17
20 degrees or once increase in oil particles of the drivetrain rises above 200, then with 90% probability
the main bearing is in fault condition. Therefore, using Equation (2), the exponential rates of the
temperature and oil particle based diagnostic agents for the main bearing can be calculated as:
lAT= ln(1 0.9)
20=0.115 (1C)
lAO= ln(1 0.9)
200=0.0115(6)
Figure 9 shows the probability of the main bearing being in fault condition, based on temperature
and oil particle diagnostic agents, in which 90% probability of fault in both graphs is highlighted.
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  11 of 17 
 ߣ஺೅=−ln(1−0.9)
20= 0.115(1
°C) 
ߣ஺ೀ=−ln(1−0.9)
200= 0.0115  (6)
Figure 9 shows the probability of the main bearin g being in fault condition, based on temperature 
and oil particle diagnostic agents, in which 90% prob ability of fault in both graphs is highlighted. 
 
Figure 9.  Probability of fault for temperature and oil part icle diagnostic agents of the main bearing 
based on exponential rates calculated in Equation (6). 
Now that the exponential rates are known, based on the condition monitoring data given in a 
time interval, the probability of the main bearing of  this offshore wind turbine being in faulty state 
can be calculated. This case study focuses on the one-hour time interval highlighted with orange 
dashed line in Figure 8. In this one-hour time in terval, based on temperature and oil particle graphs 
given in Figures 7 and 8, there is a maximum temper ature deviation of 14.5 degrees and increase of 
136 oil particles. Therefore, based on Equation (1), the probability of the main bearing of this wind 
turbine being in faulty condition can be estimated as: 
ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ |ܣ்)=1−eିఒಲ೅∆ಲ೅=1−e x p (−0.115×14.5 )=0 . 8 1  
ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ |ܣை)=1−eିఒಲೀ∆ಲೀ=1−e x p (−0.0115×136 )=0 . 7 9  (7)
The vibration based diagnosis of the main bearing of this wind turbine in the same time interval 
is in criticality level four, which can be translated into 80% probability of fault. Table 2 gives an overview of the diagnosis matrix of the main bearing of the wind turbine discussed in this case study. 
Table 2.  Diagnosis matrix of the main bearing of the wind turbine discussed in this case study. 
Component Diagnosis of Diagnostic Agent— P(D|A )
Vibration Based Temperature Based Oil Particle Based 
Healthy Faulty Healthy Faulty Healthy Faulty 
Bearing 0.2 0.8 0.19 0.81 0.21 0.79 
Now that both probability confidence and diag nosis matrices are known, based on the total 
probability theorem given in Equation  (3), the probability of this main bearing being in faulty condition 
can be estimated as:  
Figure 9. Probability of fault for temperature and oil particle diagnostic agents of the main bearing
based on exponential rates calculated in Equation (6).
Now that the exponential rates are known, based on the condition monitoring data given in a
time interval, the probability of the main bearing of this offshore wind turbine being in faulty state can
be calculated. This case study focuses on the one-hour time interval highlighted with orange dashed
line in Figure 8. In this one-hour time interval, based on temperature and oil particle graphs given
in Figures 7 and 8, there is a maximum temperature deviation of 14.5 degrees and increase of 136 oil
particles. Therefore, based on Equation (1), the probability of the main bearing of this wind turbine
being in faulty condition can be estimated as:
P(D=FaultyjAT)=1 e lATDAT=1 exp( 0.11514.5)=0.81
P(D=FaultyjAO)=1 e lAODAO=1 exp( 0.0115136)=0.79(7)
The vibration based diagnosis of the main bearing of this wind turbine in the same time interval is
in criticality level four, which can be translated into 80% probability of fault. Table 2 gives an overview
of the diagnosis matrix of the main bearing of the wind turbine discussed in this case study.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 12 of 17
Table 2. Diagnosis matrix of the main bearing of the wind turbine discussed in this case study.
ComponentDiagnosis of Diagnostic Agent— P(D|A )
Vibration Based Temperature Based Oil Particle Based
Healthy Faulty Healthy Faulty Healthy Faulty
Bearing 0.2 0.8 0.19 0.81 0.21 0.79
Now that both probability conﬁdence and diagnosis matrices are known, based on the total
probability theorem given in Equation (3), the probability of this main bearing being in faulty condition
can be estimated as:
P(D=Faulty )Bearing
=P(D=FaultyjAV)P(AV)+P(D=FaultyjAT)P(AT)
+P(D=FaultyjAO)P(AO)=0.80.3+0.810.2+0.790.5
=0.797(8)
Therefore, based on a hybrid of all diagnostic agents, the probability of the main bearing of this
wind turbine is 79.7%. Figure 10 shows an overview of the case study results.
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  12 of 17 
 )ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ ஻௘௔௥௜௡௚
=	 ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ |ܣ௏)(ܲܣ௏)+ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ |ܣ்)(ܲܣ்)
+ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ |ܣை)ܣ(ܲை) = 0.8×0.3+0.81×0.2+0.79×0.5
= 0.797  (8)
Therefore, based on a hybrid of all diagnostic agents, the probability of the main bearing of this 
wind turbine is 79.7%. Figure 10 shows an  overview of the case study results.  
 
 
Figure 10.  Overview of the case study results of a wind turbine’s main bearing. 
As discussed in Section 2.6 and visualized in Figu re 5, the estimated probability of being in fault 
condition should be used in a decision model to initiate follow up inspection and condition based 
maintenance actions. In the next section, it is as sumed that based on the decision model outcome, an 
inspection should be initiated to validate the diagnosis. 
3.6. Posterior Confidence Matrix 
If an inspection confirms that the state of the component is faulty, then the prior estimations of 
the confidence matrix can be updated by Bayesian updating. For instance, based on Equation (4), the 
posterior confidence level of temperature based diag nostic agent for the main bearing given 0.797 as 
the total probability of the bearing being in fault condition is: 
(ܲܣ்|ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ=)ݕݐ݈݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ |ܣ்)(′ܲܣ்)
)ݕݐ݈ݑܽܨ=ܦ(ܲ ൘ =0.81×0.20.797ൗ
= 0.203  (9)
It should be noted that P(D = Faulty ) is the total probability of a component being in faulty state 
and not the probability of fault given the inspection outcome. 
Table 3 shows the prior and posterior confidence levels of all diagnostic agents for the main 
bearing. It also shows that posterior confidence levels can be easily calculated by dividing the Bayes Numerator of each agent by total Bayes Numerator or P(D = Faulty ) = 0.797 of the main bearing. 
  
Figure 10. Overview of the case study results of a wind turbine’s main bearing.
As discussed in Section 2.6 and visualized in Figure 5, the estimated probability of being in fault
condition should be used in a decision model to initiate follow up inspection and condition based
maintenance actions. In the next section, it is assumed that based on the decision model outcome,
an inspection should be initiated to validate the diagnosis.
3.6. Posterior Conﬁdence Matrix
If an inspection conﬁrms that the state of the component is faulty, then the prior estimations of
the conﬁdence matrix can be updated by Bayesian updating. For instance, based on Equation (4),
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 13 of 17
the posterior conﬁdence level of temperature based diagnostic agent for the main bearing given 0.797
as the total probability of the bearing being in fault condition is:
P(ATjD=Faullty )=P(D=FaultyjAT)P0(AT)/P(D=Faulty )=0.810.2/0.797
=0.203(9)
It should be noted that P(D = Faulty ) is the total probability of a component being in faulty state
and not the probability of fault given the inspection outcome.
Table 3 shows the prior and posterior conﬁdence levels of all diagnostic agents for the main
bearing. It also shows that posterior conﬁdence levels can be easily calculated by dividing the Bayes
Numerator of each agent by total Bayes Numerator or P(D = Faulty ) = 0.797 of the main bearing.
Table 3. Posterior conﬁdence levels of diagnostic agents for the main bearing.
Diagnostic Agent Prior Conﬁdence Diagnosis Bayes Numerator Posterior Conﬁdence
A P (A) P(D = Faulty|A ) P(A)P(D = Faulty|A ) P(A|D = Faulty )
Vibration based 0.3 0.80 0.240 0.301
Temperature based 0.2 0.81 0.162 0.203
Oil particle based 0.5 0.79 0.395 0.496
Total 1.0 NA 0.797 1.0
The updated posterior conﬁdence levels of diagnostic agents should be used for future diagnostics
to enhance the fault detection accuracy made by this holistic diagnostic model.
4. Discussion
The case study presented in this paper is based on three diagnostic agents for two component
states (healthy or faulty), and the probability of each diagnosis is modelled using an exponential
distribution. Future studies could explore the application of another diagnostic agent and more
accurate probabilistic diagnosis models for multiple component states or deterioration levels (such as
healthy, minor damaged, damaged, server damaged).
The conﬁdence matrix of this case study shown in Table 1 is based on documented early
fault detection data of the main bearing in similar operational offshore wind farms. If sufﬁciently
documented fault detection data is not available, equal initial PoD or conﬁdence levels for all diagnostic
agents can be assumed. In this respect, it should be noted that early results of this diagnostic model
are associated with high uncertainties, but after a few Bayesian updates of the model based on actual
fault detection data, the uncertainty of the conﬁdence levels should be reduced to an acceptable level.
As instance, Table 4 shows that assumed equal conﬁdence levels for vibration, temperature, and oil
particle based agents after two hypothetical fault detections are respectively updated to 0.15, 0.04,
and 0.81. The more this diagnostic model is used in practice, the less the associated uncertainties are.
Table 4. Sensitivity analysis of initial equal conﬁdence levels after two hypothetical diagnoses.
Diagnostic Agent Assumed Conﬁdence 1st Diagnosis 1st Updated Conﬁdence 2nd Diagnosis 2nd Updated Conﬁdence
Vibration based 0.33 0.2 0.18 0.6 0.15
Temperature based 0.33 0.1 0.09 0.3 0.04
Oil particle based 0.34 0.8 0.73 0.8 0.81
Total 1.0 NA 1.0 NA 1.0
Furthermore, the conﬁdence model of such a diagnostic model can be based on each failure mode
of each single component to increase the accuracy of the model results.
As discussed in Section 2.4 and visualized in Figure 4, future studies could investigate application
of a risk based Bayesian decision model for optimal inspection and monitoring planning of an offshore
wind farm.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 14 of 17
Last but not least, it should be noted that the purpose of the discussed case study in this paper
is to demonstrate the framework and the implementation steps of the diagnostic model and not the
validation of the accuracy of the model. The fault detection accuracy of this diagnostic model is
depending on the accuracy of the applied diagnostic agents, which is not the focus of this paper.
5. Conclusions
The diagnostic model introduced in this paper is a hybrid multi-agent model, which can
incorporate results of multiple diagnostic agents into each other to detect faults of a single wind
farm component. This diagnostic model is based on the assumption that no diagnostic agent can
single-handedly optimally detect faults in a wind farm component. The probability of fault detection
of each diagnostic agent is deﬁned within an initial conﬁdence matrix. When the diagnosis of such a
diagnostic model is veriﬁed by inspections, based on the Bayes’ rule, the initial conﬁdence matrix can
be updated to reduce the uncertainties associated with the initial conﬁdence levels.
As elaborated in Section 4 of this paper, in future studies on this topic, application of more accurate
reliability models and fault detection techniques within the described diagnostic framework can be
further investigated. Additionally, ﬁnancial beneﬁt of this diagnostic model within a case study for
critical components of all wind turbines of an offshore wind farm can be quantiﬁed.
Once based on the hybrid diagnostic model deﬁned in this paper, optimal condition based work
orders are created, a work order scheduling and prioritization model such as the one shown in
Figure 11 should be used to determine optimal short-term O&M planning for all outstanding work
orders in a working shift (including corrective, scheduled, predictive, and upgrade work orders).
In [50], scheduling and prioritization model is further discussed.
Energies 2018 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  14 of 17 
 diagnostic model is verified by inspections, based on the Bayes’ rule, the initial confidence matrix 
can be updated to reduce the uncertainties asso ciated with the initial confidence levels.  
As elaborated in Section 4 of this paper, in future studies on this topic, application of more 
accurate reliability models and fault detection tech niques within the described diagnostic framework 
can be further investigated. Additionally, financial benefit of this diagnostic model within a case study for critical components of all wind turbines  of an offshore wind farm can be quantified. 
Once based on the hybrid diagnostic model de fined in this paper, optimal condition based 
work orders are created, a work order scheduling and prioritization model such as the one shown in Figure 11 should be used to determine optimal short-term O&M planning for all outstanding work 
orders in a working shift (including corrective, sc heduled, predictive, and upgrade work orders).  
In [50], scheduling and prioritization model is further discussed. 
 
Figure 11.  Framework for optimal short-term O&M planning of offshore wind farms. 
The application of the discussed decision and diagnostic models shown in Figures 4 and 5, 
within the short-term O&M planning framework shown in Figure 11, can result in a significant O&M cost reduction for offshore wind farms.  
The presented generic diagnostic model can be implemented into any asset management or IT 
infrastructure to detect faults, prevent failures, and reduce O&M costs and downtime of offshore 
wind components. The discussed diagnostic model can also be used for onshore wind farms,  but within a cost-benefit analysis the optimal scop e of the diagnostic model should be determined. 
The fault detection and condition based maintenanc e of all sub-components of onshore wind farms 
can result in more cost than benefit since O&M co sts of onshore wind farms are considerably lower 
than offshore ones. 
Author Contributions:  Masoud Asgarpour introduced a probabilistic Bayesian method for multi-agent 
diagnostics and condition based main tenance of offshore wind componen ts and performed a case study to 
demonstrate the model; Masoud Asgarpour defined, sco ped and wrote the paper and John Dalsgaard Sørensen 
reviewed the paper and contributed to  the Section 2.4 of this paper.  
Conflicts of Interest:  The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Nomenclature 
ܣ fault detection or diagnostic agent A 
∆஺ deviation of the actual signal compared  to its profile for diagnostic agent ܣ 
ߣ஺ exponential rate of diagnostic agent ܣ 
ܲ probability level of the expert’s judgement 
ܣ(ܲ௜) confidence level of diagnostic agent ܣ௜ 
Figure 11. Framework for optimal short-term O&M planning of offshore wind farms.
The application of the discussed decision and diagnostic models shown in Figures 4 and 5, within
the short-term O&M planning framework shown in Figure 11, can result in a signiﬁcant O&M cost
reduction for offshore wind farms.
The presented generic diagnostic model can be implemented into any asset management or IT
infrastructure to detect faults, prevent failures, and reduce O&M costs and downtime of offshore wind
components. The discussed diagnostic model can also be used for onshore wind farms, but within
a cost-beneﬁt analysis the optimal scope of the diagnostic model should be determined. The fault
detection and condition based maintenance of all sub-components of onshore wind farms can result
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 15 of 17
in more cost than beneﬁt since O&M costs of onshore wind farms are considerably lower than
offshore ones.
Author Contributions: Masoud Asgarpour introduced a probabilistic Bayesian method for multi-agent
diagnostics and condition based maintenance of offshore wind components and performed a case study to
demonstrate the model; Masoud Asgarpour deﬁned, scoped and wrote the paper and John Dalsgaard Sørensen
reviewed the paper and contributed to the Section 2.4 of this paper.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Nomenclature
A fault detection or diagnostic agent A
DA deviation of the actual signal compared to its proﬁle for diagnostic agent A
lA exponential rate of diagnostic agent A
P probability level of the expert’s judgement
P(Ai) conﬁdence level of diagnostic agent Ai
P0(A) prior conﬁdence level of diagnostic agent A
P(DjA) probability of the component diagnosis Dbeing faulty or healthy given agent A
P(D=Faulty ) probability of a component being in faulty state
P(D=FaultyjAi) probability of component being faulty given diagnostic agent Ai
P(AjD=Faulty ) posterior conﬁdence level of diagnostic agent A
References
1. WindEurope. Wind in Power: 2016 European Statistics ; WindEurope: Brussels, Belgium, 2017.
2. Shaﬁee, M.; Sørensen, J.D. Maintenance Optimization and Inspection Planning of Wind Energy Assets:
Models, Methods and Strategies. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2017 , 1–19. [CrossRef]
3. Hofmann, M. A Review of Decision Support Models for Offshore Wind Farms with an Emphasis on
Operation and Maintenance Strategies. Wind Eng. 2011 ,35, 1–16. [CrossRef]
4. Asgarpour, M.; Sørensen, J.D. State of the Art in Operation and Maintenance Planning of Offshore Wind
Farms. In Proceedings of the European Safety & Reliability Conference (ESREL), Zurich, Switzerland,
7–10 September 2015; pp. 1119–1125.
5. Asgarpour, M.; Dalsgaard Sorensen, J. O&M Modeling of Offshore Wind Farms—State of the Art and Future
Developments. In Proceedings of the Reliability and Maintainability Symposium (RAMS), Tucson, AZ, USA,
25–28 January 2016.
6. Asgarpour, M.; van de Pieterman, R. O&M Cost Reduction of Offshore Wind Farms—A Novel Case Study ; Energy
Centre of the Netherlands (ECN): Petten, The Netherlands, 2014.
7. Hofmann, M.; Bakken, I. NOWIcob—A tool for reducing the maintenance costs of offshore wind farms.
Energy Procedia 2013 ,35, 177–186. [CrossRef]
8. Van Bussel, G.J.W.; Bierbooms, W.A.A.M. The DOWEC Offshore Reference Windfarm: Analysis of transportation
for operation and maintenance. Wind Eng. 2003 ,27, 381–392. [CrossRef]
9. Dinwoodie, I.; Endrerud, O.V .; Hofmann, M.; Martin, R.; Sperstad, I.B. Reference Cases for Veriﬁcation
of Operation and Maintenance Simulation Models for Offshore Wind Farms. Wind Eng. 2015 ,39, 1–14.
[CrossRef]
10. Ossai, C.I.; Boswell, B.; Davies, I.J. A Markovian approach for modelling the effects of maintenance on
downtime and failure risk of wind turbine components. Renew. Energy 2016 ,96, 775–783. [CrossRef]
11. Byon, E.; Ding, Y. Season-Dependent Condition-Based Maintenance for a Wind Turbine Using a Partially
Observed. IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 2010 ,25, 1823–1834. [CrossRef]
12. Leigh, J.M.; Dunnett, S.J. Use of Petri nets to model the maintenance of wind turbines. Qual. Reliab. Eng. Int.
2016 ,32, 167–180. [CrossRef]
13. Guedes Santos, F.; Teixeira, A.P .; Guedes Soares, C.G. Modelling and simulation of the operation and
maintenance of offshore wind turbines. Risk Reliab. 2015 ,229, 385–393.
14. Zhang, Y.; Huang, B.; Sang, Q. Modeling and analysis of maintenance processes for offshore wind farms
based on GSPN. J. Tsinghua Univ. 2014 ,7, 942–951.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 16 of 17
15. Sørensen, J.D. Framework for Risk-based Planning of Operation and Maintenance for Offshore Wind
Turbines. Wind Energy 2009 ,12, 493–506. [CrossRef]
16. Nielsen, J.J.; Sørensen, J.D. On risk-based operation and maintenance of offshore wind turbine components.
Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2011 ,96, 218–229. [CrossRef]
17. Rangel-Ram írez, J.G.; Sørensen, J.D. Risk-based inspection planning optimisation of offshore wind turbines.
Struct. Infrastruct. Eng. 2012 ,8, 473–481. [CrossRef]
18. Nielsen, J.S.; Sørensen, J.D. Methods for Risk-Based Planning of O&M of Wind Turbines. Energies 2014 ,7,
6645–6664.
19. Tian, Z.; Ding, Y.; Ding, F. Maintenance Optimization of Wind Turbine Systems Based on Intelligent Prediction
Tools. Innov. Comput. Methods 2011 ,357, 53–71.
20. Hameed, Z.; Wang, K. Development of Optimal Maintenance Strategies for Offshore Wind Turbine by using
Artiﬁcial Neural Network. Wind Eng. 2012 ,36, 353–364. [CrossRef]
21. Pattison, D.; Segovia Garcia, M.; Xie, W.; Quail, F.; Revie, M.; Whitﬁeld, I.; Irvine, I. Intelligent integrated
maintenance for wind power generation. Wind Energy 2016 ,19, 547–562. [CrossRef]
22. Lau, B.C.P .; Ma, E.W.M.; Pecht, M. Review of Offshore Wind Turbine Failures and Fault Prognostic Methods.
In Proceedings of the Prognostics & System Health Management Conference, Beijing, China, 23–25 May 2012 .
23. Canizo, M.; Onieva, E.; Conde, A.; Charramendieta, S.; Trujillo, S. Real-time Predictive Maintenance for
Wind Turbines Using Big Data Frameworks. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Prognostics
and Health Management (ICPHM), Dallas, TX, USA, 19–21 June 2017; pp. 1–8.
24. Nielsen, J.S.; Sørensen, J.D. Bayesian Estimation of Remaining Useful Life for Wind Turbine Blades. Energies
2017 ,10, 664. [CrossRef]
25. Nijssen, L. Fatigue Life Prediction and Strength Degradation of Wind Turbine Rotor Blade Composites.
Ph.D. Thesis, Delft University, Delft, The Netherlands, 2006.
26. Rasekhi Nejad, A.; Odgaard, P .F.; Gao, Z.; Moan, T. A prognostic method for fault detection in wind turbine
drivetrains. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2014 ,42, 324–336. [CrossRef]
27. Grifﬁth, D.T.; Yoder, N.C.; Resor, B.; White, J.; Paquette, J. Structural health and prognostics management
for the enhancement of offshore wind turbine operations and maintenance strategies. Wind Energy 2014 ,17,
1737–1751. [CrossRef]
28. Chen, B.; Matthews, P .C.; Tavner, P .J. Wind turbine pitch faults prognosis using a-priori knowledge-based
ANFIS. Expert Syst. Appl. 2013 ,40, 6863–6876. [CrossRef]
29. Liu, W.Y.; Tang, B.P .; Han, J.G.; Lu, X.N.; Hu, N.N.; He, Z.Z. The structure healthy condition monitoring
and fault diagnosis methods in wind turbines: A review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2015 ,44, 466–472.
[CrossRef]
30. Kandukuri, S.T.; Klausen, A.; Karimi, H.R.; Robbersmyr, K.G. A review of diagnostics and prognostics of
low-speed machinery towards wind turbine farm-level health management. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.
2016 ,53, 697–708. [CrossRef]
31. Nie, M.; Wang, L. Review of condition monitoring and fault diagnosis technologies for wind turbine gearbox.
Procedia CIRP 2013 ,11, 287–290. [CrossRef]
32. Dias Machado de Azevedo, H.; Maur ício Ara újo, A.; Bouchonneau, N. A review of wind turbine bearing
condition monitoring: State of the art and challenges. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,56, 368–379.
[CrossRef]
33. Coronado, D.; Fischer, K. Condition Monitoring of Wind Turbines: State of the Art, User Experience and
Recommendations ; VGB Research Foundation, VGB-Nr. 383; Fraunhofer-IWES: Bremerhaven, Germany, 2015.
34. Tchakoua, P .; Wamkeue, R.; Ouhrouche, M.; Slaoui-hasnaoui, F.; Tameghe, T.A.; Ekemb, G. Wind Turbine
Condition Monitoring: State-of-the-Art Review, New Trends, and Future Challenges. Energies 2014 ,7,
2595–2630.
35. Pedro, F.; M árquez, G.; Mark, A.; Mar ía, J.; P érez, P .; Papaelias, M. Condition monitoring of wind turbines:
Techniques and methods. Renew. Energy 2012 ,46, 169–178.
36. Yang, W.; Tavner, P .J.; Crabtree, C.J.; Feng, Y.; Qiu, Y. Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring: Technical &
Commercial Challenges. Wind Energy 2014 ,7, 673–693.
37. Lu, B.; Li, Y.; Wu, X.; Yang, Z. A Review of Recent Advances in Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring and Fault
Diagnosis. In Proceedings of the Power Electronics and Machines in Wind Applications, Lincoln, NE, USA ,
24–26 June 2009.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2018 ,11, 300 17 of 17
38. Hameed, Z.; Hong, Y.S.; Cho, Y.M.; Ahn, S.H.; Song, C.K. Condition monitoring and fault detection of wind
turbines and related algorithms: A review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2009 ,13, 1–39. [CrossRef]
39. McMillan, D.; Ault, G.W. Quantiﬁcation of Condition Monitoring Beneﬁt for Offshore Wind Turbines.
Wind Eng. 2007 ,31, 267–285. [CrossRef]
40. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; McMillan, D. Failure Rate, Repair Time and Unscheduled O&M Cost Analysis of
Offshore Wind Turbines. Wind Energy 2016 ,19, 1107–1119.
41. Technical Committee CEN 319. EN 13306 Maintenance Terminology ; CEN: Brussels, Belgium, 2010.
42. Si, X.; Wang, W.; Hu, C.; Zhou, D. Remaining useful life estimation—A review on the statistical data driven
approaches. Eur. J. Oper. Res. 2011 ,213, 1–14. [CrossRef]
43. Sikorska, J.; Ma, L. Prognostic modeling options for remaining useful life estimation by industry. Mech. Syst.
Signal Process. 2011 ,25, 1803–1836. [CrossRef]
44. Welte, T.M.; Wang, K. Models for lifetime estimation: An overview with focus on applications to wind
turbines. Adv. Manuf. 2014 ,2, 79–87. [CrossRef]
45. Ronold, K.O.; Larsen, G.C. Reliability-based design of wind-turbine rotor blades against failure in ultimate
loading. Eng. Struct. 2000 ,22, 565–574. [CrossRef]
46. Bagheri, S.F.; Alizadeh, M.; Nadarajah, S.; Deiri, E. Efﬁcient Estimation of the PDF and the CDF of the Weibull
Extension Model. Commun. Stat. Simul. Comput. 2016 ,45, 2191–2207. [CrossRef]
47. Gray, C.S.; Watson, S.J. Physics of failure approach to wind turbine condition based maintenance. Wind Energy
2010 ,13, 395–405. [CrossRef]
48. Guo, H.; Watson, S.; Tavner, P .; Xiang, J. Reliability analysis for wind turbines with incomplete failure data
collected from after the date of initial installation. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2009 ,94, 1057–1063. [CrossRef]
49. Garcia, M.C.; Sanz-Bobi, M.A.; del Pico, J. SIMAP: Intelligent System for Predictive Maintenance Application
to the health condition monitoring of a windturbine gearbox. Comput. Ind. 2006 ,57, 552–568. [CrossRef]
50. Asgarpour, M. Risk and Reliability Based O&M Planning of Offshore Wind Farms. Ph.D. Thesis,
Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark, 2018.
©2018 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
