sustainability
Review
Health Monitoring and Safety Evaluation of the
Offshore Wind T urbine Structure: A Review and
Discussion of Future Development
Jijian Lian1,2, Ou Cai1,2,3, Xiaofeng Dong1,2,*, Qi Jiang1,2and Yue Zhao1,2
1State Key Laboratory of Hydraulic Engineering Simulation and Safety, Tianjin University,
Tianjin 300350, China; jjlian@tju.edu.cn (J.L.); tjuwind@126.com (O.C.); jiangqi_tju@163.com (Q.J.);
yue_zhao@tju.edu.com (Y.Z.)
2School of Civil Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300350, China
3PowerChina Beijing Engineering Corporation Limited, Beijing 100024, China
*Correspondence: tju_dongxf@126.com; Tel.: +86-022-2740-1127
Received: 12 December 2018; Accepted: 28 December 2018; Published: 18 January 2019
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Abstract: With the depletion of fossil energy, offshore wind power has become an irreplaceable
energy source for most countries in the world. In recent years, offshore wind power generation has
presented the gradual development trend of larger capacity, taller towers, and longer blades. The more
ﬂexible towers and blades have led to the structural operational safety of the offshore wind turbine
(OWT) receiving increasing worldwide attention. From this perspective, health monitoring systems
and operational safety evaluation techniques of the offshore wind turbine structure, including the
monitoring system category, data acquisition and transmission, feature information extraction
and identiﬁcation, safety evaluation and reliability analysis, and the intelligent operation and
maintenance, were systematically investigated and summarized in this paper. Furthermore, a review
of the current status, advantages, disadvantages, and the future development trend of existing
systems and techniques was also carried out. Particularly, the offshore wind power industry will
continue to develop into deep ocean areas in the next 30 years in China. Practical and reliable
health monitoring systems and safety evaluation techniques are increasingly critical for offshore
wind farms. Simultaneously, they have great signiﬁcance for strengthening operation management,
making efﬁcient decisions, and reducing failure risks, and are also the key link in ensuring safe
energy compositions and achieving energy development targets in China. The aims of this article are
to inform more scholars and experts about the status of the health monitoring and safety evaluation
of the offshore wind turbine structure, and to contribute toward improving the efﬁciency of the
corresponding systems and techniques.
Keywords: offshore wind turbine; health monitoring system; feature information extraction;
reliability analysis; safety evaluation
1. Introduction
Considering the problems of the continuous shortage of international fossil energy and
environmental pollution, many countries have increased their development of clean renewable
energy. Offshore wind energy has attracted worldwide attention because it has many advantages,
including huge energy reserves, continuous resource stability, short construction period, and mild
environmental inﬂuence. As of the end of 2017, the new installed capacity of the global wind power was
52.57 GW, and the cumulative installed capacity has reached 539.58 GW with a year-on-year growth of
10.85% [ 1]. Simultaneously, the new installed and cumulative capacity of offshore wind power are
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494; doi:10.3390/su11020494 www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 2 of 29
4.33 GW and 18.81 GW, respectively. It is estimated that the percentage of the global electricity supply
generated from the wind power will be up to 8%–12% by 2020 [ 2]. The potential installed capacity
of the offshore wind energy in China is about 500 GW, which is 23 times as much as the capacity of
the Three Gorges Projects [ 3]. Compared with the onshore wind power, the offshore wind energy in
China has the obvious advantages of high wind speed, high output, and a long lifetime. Hence, it has
become the important component of the national energy sustainable development strategy in recent
years. In 2017, the cumulative installed capacity of the offshore wind power in China reached 2.79 GW
with the new installed capacity of 1.16 GW, as described in Figure 1, and the cumulative capacity
surpasses Denmark’s position to be placed among the top three in the world. As shown in Figure 2,
seven provinces in China have begun to develop offshore wind power in 2017 and it is predicted that
the cumulative installed capacity of the offshore wind power in China will reach 5 GW by the end of
2020, which has a very large potential for development and utilization.
Sustainability 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 2 of 30 
electricity supply generated from the wind power wi ll be up to 8%–12% by 2020 [2]. The potential 
installed capacity of the offshore wind energy in China is about 500 GW, which is 23 times as much 
as the capacity of the Three Gorges  Projects [3]. Compared with the onshore wind power, the offshore 
wind energy in China has the obvious advantages of high wind speed, high output, and a long 
lifetime. Hence, it has become the important component of the national energy sustainable 
development strategy in recent years. In 2017, the cumulative installed capaci ty of the offshore wind 
power in China reached 2.79 GW with the new installed capacity of 1.16 GW, as described in Figure 1, and the cumulative capacity surpasses Denmark’s position to be placed among the top three in the 
world. As shown in Figure 2, seven provinces in China have begun to develop offshore wind power 
in 2017 and it is predicted that the cumulative installed capacity of the offshore wind power in China 
will reach 5 GW by the end of 2020, which has a ve ry large potential for development and utilization. 
 
Figure 1.  Development of the offshore wind power in China and worldwide (inset). 
 
Figure 1. Development of the offshore wind power in China and worldwide (inset).
Sustainability 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 2 of 30 
electricity supply generated from the wind power wi ll be up to 8%–12% by 2020 [2]. The potential 
installed capacity of the offshore wind energy in China is about 500 GW, which is 23 times as much 
as the capacity of the Three Gorges  Projects [3]. Compared with the onshore wind power, the offshore 
wind energy in China has the obvious advantages of high wind speed, high output, and a long 
lifetime. Hence, it has become the important component of the national energy sustainable 
development strategy in recent years. In 2017, the cumulative installed capaci ty of the offshore wind 
power in China reached 2.79 GW with the new installed capacity of 1.16 GW, as described in Figure 1, and the cumulative capacity surpasses Denmark’s position to be placed among the top three in the 
world. As shown in Figure 2, seven provinces in China have begun to develop offshore wind power 
in 2017 and it is predicted that the cumulative installed capacity of the offshore wind power in China 
will reach 5 GW by the end of 2020, which has a ve ry large potential for development and utilization. 
 
Figure 1.  Development of the offshore wind power in China and worldwide (inset). 
 
Figure 2. Distribution of installed capacity of offshore wind farms built and under construction in 2017.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 3 of 29
With the development of wind energy technology, the offshore wind power industry has shown a
trend toward larger capacity, taller towers, and longer blades in recent years, such as the exempliﬁed
by the Pinghaiwan offshore wind farm in China (capacity of 5 MW, blade length of 64.0 m, and
tower height of 90.0 m) [ 4], the Westermost Rough offshore wind farm in the United Kingdom
(capacity of 6 MW, blade length of 77.0 m, and tower height of 102.0 m) [ 5], and the Gode offshore
wind farm in Germany [ 5] (capacity of 6 MW, blade length of 77.0 m, and tower height of 110.0 m).
Hence, an important issue which comes with this change is the structural safety of the wind turbine
under operational conditions, because the tower and blades have become more ﬂexible. In particular,
more than 700 ·project accidents have occurred in the last ﬁve years [ 6,7], and the structural operational
safety of the offshore wind turbine (OWT) should be given more extensive attention.
The events leading to failure of the OWT usually happen in the blades, tower, and foundation,
and are varied [ 8,9]. On one hand, the accidents could be induced by complex external excitations [ 10].
For example, Ishihara reported that the wind turbines on Miyakojima Island were extensively damaged
due to the excessive bending moment of towers induced by the typhoon Maemi in 2003 [ 11]. A similar
incident happened on 16 September 2013, and one coastal wind farm was catastrophically destroyed
because of the direct inﬂuence of the super typhoon Usagi. Speciﬁcally speaking, the strong wind
excitations induced strains in the blades and the tower exceeded the failure threshold strains of the
structural materials, which led to the blade fracture and tower collapse [ 12]. Furthermore, in 2015,
the typhoon Soudelor, with the maximum instantaneous wind speed of more than 59.5 m/s, struck
Taiwan, and it was found that the blades of one wind turbine were fractured and six towers of
turbines had snapped [ 13]. On the other hand, the fatigue operation and structural faults originating
from insufﬁcient supervision will also lead to the damage to wind turbine structures [ 14,15]. In 2008,
the typhoon Jangmi collapsed the wind turbine structures which were located in Taichung Harbor of
Taiwan and snapped the lower tower into two parts. After a study investigation and lab experiments,
insufﬁcient bolt strength and poor bolt quality control during construction were considered as the
likely causes of the tower’s collapse [ 16]. Simultaneously, the three main reasons of insufﬁcient material
strength, the resonance effect, and human error were identiﬁed for the blade damage in the same
incident [ 17]. Since the OWTs are usually located in areas which are far from land, the workers cannot
regularly perform onsite inspections of the structure. Therefore, real-time health monitoring and
accurate operational safety evaluation should be carried out on the OWT structure. This gradually
becomes the key point for the safety monitoring and the operation management of the offshore
wind farm.
In recent years, health monitoring systems and safety evaluation techniques of the OWT have
obtained more attention from researchers and engineers. Some reviews have been completed to
provide owners and managers of wind farms with useful summaries and advice in order to reduce
structural failure risks and economic losses. One part of these reviews is related to the summary of the
development trend [ 18] and the future challenges [ 19] of wind turbine condition monitoring. The other
parts mainly focus on the health monitoring systems and techniques of the wind turbine, including
gearbox [ 20], blades [ 21,22], and the tower [ 23]. A discussion on the data processing, feature extraction,
operational evaluation techniques, and the health monitoring system was presented for the ﬁrst time in
Ref. [ 24]. However, the discussion is not comprehensive or sufﬁcient in explaining the applicability of
the mentioned methods for OWTs. In this paper, the health monitoring systems and safety evaluation
techniques of the OWT structure, including monitoring system categories, data acquisition and
transmission, feature information extraction and safety evaluation, and the intelligent operation and
maintenance will be systematically investigated and summarized. This is done with the intention
of determining how to construct reasonable systems, utilize the measured data, assess the structural
safety, and achieve intelligent maintenance during the process of the health monitoring and safety
evaluation of the OWT in order to better manage and operate the offshore wind farm.
This paper consists of seven sections: In Section 2, the health monitoring systems of the OWT are
ﬁrst summarized. Subsequently, techniques of data acquisition and transmission, feature information
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 4 of 29
extraction and identiﬁcation, safety evaluation and reliability analysis, and intelligent operation and
maintenance in the offshore wind farm are comprehensively reviewed in Sections 3–6, respectively,
mainly based on the practical engineering applications. In Sections 7 and 8, the future development
trend of health monitoring systems and safety evaluation techniques of the OWT are further discussed
and principal conclusions are explained.
2. Health Monitoring System
2.1. SCADA and CMSs
Since offshore wind farms are always far away from the mainland, many remote health monitoring
systems have been applied in order to reduce failure risks, identify fault occurrences, and improve the
working performance by analyzing the data measured from the wind turbine. Supervisory control and
data acquisition (SCADA) systems and condition monitoring systems (CMSs) are considered as the two
most common means of structural health monitoring. SCADA systems, with more than 20 variants,
are widely approved and deployed to the offshore wind power industry. They are usually used to
monitor several parameters related to different wind turbine components (e.g., structural vibration
levels, temperature, bearings, tower, and drive train acceleration). In addition, SCADA systems are
also utilized to obtain different factors as inputs of the wind turbine (e.g., wind speed, wind deviations,
and wind direction angle) or outputs (e.g., rotor speed, blade angle, output active, and reactive
power) [ 25]. The measured signals, recorded at a low sampling frequency (usually at 10 min
intervals and smaller than 0.002 Hz), can be processed in a timely manner by many data analysis
tools to detect the fault location and degree, explain problem causes, and automatically provide the
operators and managers with real-time online feedback and useful suggestions [ 26]. Simultaneously,
the researchers, on one hand, make full use of the data collected by the SCADA systems for further
analysis of the parameter identiﬁcation, fault diagnosis, and risk prediction [ 27]. On the other hand,
the traditional SCADA system and monitoring data are also combined with new analysis and
process techniques to perfect and update the system so that they can show a more efﬁcient and
reliable performance. Schlechtingen studied a new adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system model
to obtain different monitoring signals and achieve automatic diagnosis and prediction based on the
SCADA system [ 28,29]. Hereafter, a new generalized model was presented for wind turbine anomaly
identiﬁcation. The research introduces a new index, deﬁned to quantify the abnormal level of the
wind turbine condition, and a fuzzy synthetic evaluation method, used to integrate the identiﬁcation
result into the traditional SCADA system [ 30]. In addition to system and model improvements, the
utilization of many new methods has also been attempted in the SCADA system. For this purpose,
Yang proposed an alternative condition monitoring technique based on investigating the correlations
among the relevant SCADA data, and completed the health condition quantitative assessment of
one turbine under varying operational conditions [ 31]. Furthermore, a Bayesian framework was
introduced to explore the feasibility and potential of identifying abnormal turbine states based on the
SCADA data [ 32]. These studies and techniques provide new directions for the improvement and
updating of SCADA systems.
CMSs are considered as another important tool to monitor and measure data such as the
vibration, load, wind speed, and temperature of the OWT structure continuously at a higher frequency
(usually more than 50 Hz) in order to examine whether the wind turbine is operating correctly [ 33].
When a fault or damage has been detected based on an alarm signal from the CMS, a diagnosis system,
which obtains data at a sampling frequency greater than 10 kHz, could be activated to determine
the degree and location of the potential fault either automatically or artiﬁcially. This kind of system
can usually be implemented for the operators, indicating the health condition, obtaining the reliable
alarm, and taking essential actions on the OWT by many analysis techniques including vibration
analysis, motor current signature analysis, operational modal analysis, and the acoustic emission
technique [ 23,34,35]. For example, the ADAPT wind system designed by GE Energy Company can
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 5 of 29
monitor 150 static variables on the bearing, gearbox, and generator, and achieve the aims of detecting
the gear tooth damage and fault diagnostic and reporting the alarm based on the time and frequency
domain analysis. A new system called CMSWind, which is being invented by the CMSWind project
and is still in the development phase, combines the operational modal analysis and the acoustic
emission technique to monitor rotary components [33].
Nowadays, most CMSs were attempted to be integrated into the SCADA systems, because CMSs
can only focus on the vibration data explanation and are still not standardized, in contrast to the
SCADA system [ 36]. It is a good phenomenon that CMSs can either collect data from the SCADA
system or allow its results to be integrated into the SCADA display [ 23]. The integration between
CMS and SCADA systems has occurred in the condition-based maintenance (CBM) System, InSight
intelligent diagnostic system (IDS), and wind turbine in-service system (WTIS) and is beneﬁcial in
directly considering any other signals or variables of the entire controller network [ 33]. Furthermore,
as CMS and SCADA systems continue to merge, they will eventually produce one comprehensive
system able to signiﬁcantly improve the efﬁciency and accuracy of the structural health monitoring of
the OWT. The general layout of structural health and condition monitoring systems for OWTs can be
described as in Figure 3 [33,37].
Sustainability 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 30 
based on the time and frequency domain analysis . A new system called CMSWind, which is being 
invented by the CMSWind project and is still in the development phase, combines the operational 
modal analysis and the acoustic emission technique to monitor rotary components [33].  
Nowadays, most CMSs were attempted to be inte grated into the SCADA systems, because CMSs 
can only focus on the vibration data explanation and are still not standardized, in contrast to the SCADA system [36]. It is a good phenomenon that CMSs can either collect data from the SCADA system or allow its results to be integrated into the SCADA display [23]. The integration between CMS and SCADA systems has occurred in the cond ition-based maintenance (CBM) System, InSight 
intelligent diagnostic system (IDS), and wind turbin e in-service system (WTIS) and is beneficial in 
directly considering any other signals or variables of the entire controller network [33]. Furthermore, 
as CMS and SCADA systems continue to merge, th ey will eventually produce one comprehensive 
system able to significantly improv e the efficiency and accuracy of the structural health monitoring 
of the OWT. The general layout of  structural health and condition monitoring systems for OWTs can 
be described as in Figure 3 [33,37]. 
 
Figure 3.  Structural health and condit ion monitoring of offshore wi nd turbines (OWTs). SCADA: 
supervisory control and data acquisition; CMS: condition monitoring system. 
2.2. Health Monitori ng System of Blades 
As we all know, the blades, which always consist of different composite materials with complex 
geometry and sections, are considered as the most  flexible components and are easily damaged by 
environmental excitations of the OWT structure.  When the damage of blades occurs, it may 
accumulate and reflect as cracks and delamination, which will lead to rotor imbalance, aerodynamic 
asymmetry, and even blade fracture [38]. Hence, the health monitoring of blades has an important significance on the structural safety of the OW T .  A s  e a r l y  a s  1 9 9 4 ,  S u therland used the two 
nondestructive testing techniques of acoustic emissi on (AE) and coherent optical (CO) to monitor the 
behavior of a typical wind turbine blade and dete ct the damage during static experiments [39]. 
Afterwards, a new structural neural system was invented and developed for the structural health 
monitoring (SHM) of large blades at the National  Renewable Energy Laboratory [40]. This system 
can also be implemented in a quasi-static proof te st to track failures based on the AE monitoring 
technology. In 2013, Song studied a piezoceramic-based wireless sensor network (WSN) and tried to complete the health monitoring of  wind turbine blades with an ac tive sensing approach [41]. The 
damage of blades was detected and evaluated during a static loading test and a wind tunnel 
Figure 3. Structural health and condition monitoring of offshore wind turbines (OWTs). SCADA:
supervisory control and data acquisition; CMS: condition monitoring system.
2.2. Health Monitoring System of Blades
As we all know, the blades, which always consist of different composite materials with complex
geometry and sections, are considered as the most ﬂexible components and are easily damaged by
environmental excitations of the OWT structure. When the damage of blades occurs, it may accumulate
and reﬂect as cracks and delamination, which will lead to rotor imbalance, aerodynamic asymmetry,
and even blade fracture [ 38]. Hence, the health monitoring of blades has an important signiﬁcance on
the structural safety of the OWT. As early as 1994, Sutherland used the two nondestructive testing
techniques of acoustic emission (AE) and coherent optical (CO) to monitor the behavior of a typical
wind turbine blade and detect the damage during static experiments [ 39]. Afterwards, a new structural
neural system was invented and developed for the structural health monitoring (SHM) of large
blades at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory [ 40]. This system can also be implemented in a
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 6 of 29
quasi-static proof test to track failures based on the AE monitoring technology. In 2013, Song studied a
piezoceramic-based wireless sensor network (WSN) and tried to complete the health monitoring of
wind turbine blades with an active sensing approach [ 41]. The damage of blades was detected and
evaluated during a static loading test and a wind tunnel experiment. However, static experiments
are not sufﬁcient to construct a monitoring system and still pose difﬁculties in achieving the blade
monitoring because the blades rotate periodically under the operational conditions.
The acoustic emission (AE) is the acoustic waves generated by a composite material when it
undergoes deformation and rupture [ 39]. Furthermore, the AE technique can be implemented through
recording and analyzing acoustic signals in order to determine AE sources and the corresponding
location of damage in the materials. AE has proven its high effectiveness in detecting and identifying
damage in wind turbine blades. Blanch and Dutton successfully achieved the AE monitoring ﬁeld
experiment of an operating Windharvester wind turbine based on a real-time radio telemetry system.
The research results indicated the damage location and the corresponding propagation process in the
blades [ 42]. A remote health monitoring project of the blades of an operating NEG-MICON NM48/750
wind turbine, which successfully acquired data under operational conditions for more than six months,
has also been completed based on the AE technique [ 43]. This system can be connected to the
SCADA system of the OWT and has a good performance regarding the fast integration, data exchange,
and modular processing to external systems. In addition, another AE monitoring system of blades was
designed considering cyclical fatigue loads and possibly will be applied for the offshore wind farm in
the future [44].
When the blades of the OWT experience deformation and damage, the corresponding structural
strain, which is directly related to the stresses and loads applied to the material, will change at the
same time [ 21]. Hence, many studies have implemented prototype systems for measuring strain online
in operational wind turbines to track and detect damage. A health monitoring system for the blades of
a SMART Wind Turbine Rotor project, consisting of accelerometer sensors, ﬁber optic temperature
sensors, and ﬁber optic strain sensors, was invented by Sandia National Laboratory [ 45]. It operated for
more than ﬁve months and measured deference data for the future optimization of the control system.
Then, a ﬁbrous Bragg grating (FBG) sensor began to obtain more attention because it is insensitive to
electromagnetic interference and lightning. The FBG also has a better fatigue life and a longer-term
stability than traditional strain gauges [ 46]. A FS2500 system and rotor monitoring system (RMS) were
both used to measure the strain data and edgewise and ﬂapwise bending moment data in order to
access the blade damage performance, mass and aerodynamic imbalance, blade bending moments,
and lightning strikes [ 33]. Schroeder et al. successfully installed a ﬁbrous Bragg grating sensor system
in a horizontal-axis wind turbine to achieve continuous online monitoring of the bending loads of
blades for more than two years. The measured strain data can be used to evaluate the safety condition
of blades and determine the fatigue loads for the whole turbine [ 47]. An integrated SHM system for
blades of the ﬂoating OWT has been constructed using FBGs to develop an optical ﬁber-based data
transmission module and to connect sensor nodes to a grid covering the whole blade [ 48]. This system
will be further expanded to the whole structure (e.g., nacelle, tower, and blades) and applied in the
actual offshore wind farm in the future.
Apart from the above systems, the IGUS ITS GmbH Company in Germany designed the BLADE
control system, which utilizes accelerometer producers bonded directly to the blades and rotor to
measure dynamic data and transfer wirelessly to the nacelle. The operational condition and the
safety evaluation of blades of the wind turbine can be achieved by comparing spectra with those
stored for common conditions [ 33]. Ozbek et al. monitored a 2.5 MW wind turbine according to
three measurement systems based on the techniques of the strain gauges, photogrammetry, and
laser interferometry, respectively. Then, the modal information of blades was identiﬁed for several
standstill and operational conditions with different wind speeds [ 49]. In addition, a continuous line
laser thermography system was presented for damage visualization of the wind turbine blades under
operational conditions. The properties of the fully noncontact mechanism, data acquisition without
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 7 of 29
spatial scanning, and intuitive data interpretation make the proposed system suitable to monitor and
detect the condition of long blades in the offshore wind farm [ 50]. Another thermography technique
called infrared thermography detects variations in the thermodynamic properties of blades. Based on
the temperature differences, it can further identify the ﬂaws in the adhesive by showing a series of
pictures [ 22]. X-ray imaging detection depends on quantitative information about density variations
with the change of composite material properties or the internal delamination. It has a limited capacity
for delamination detection compared with the thermography technique, which always takes the
advantage of the perpendicularity of wave propagation with respect to the delamination and obtains
higher detection sensitivity [51].
2.3. Health Monitoring System of the Tower and Foundation
The support structure of the OWT consisting of the steel tower and foundation is always designed
to make sure that the wind turbines can safely generate power at a speciﬁc height. The instability and
structural failure of the tower and the foundation, possibly induced by the extreme environmental
excitations, fatigue loads, and natural disasters, may bring destructive results to the whole OWT.
Therefore, it is necessary to achieve the structural health monitoring and develop the safety evaluation
system for the tower and foundation of the offshore wind farm.
Due to the later development of offshore wind power, more research on the health monitoring
systems of onshore wind turbines has been carried out. Firstly, the SCADA system is still effective
for vibration acceleration monitoring on the top of the wind turbine tower located near the nacelle
and tower connection [ 52]. However, the data measured from the SCADA system is insensitive to
the dynamic analysis and parameter feedback on the tower structure because of the low sampling
frequency of 0.1 Hz, or even lower frequencies [ 53]. In order to overcome this problem, the wireless
sensor networks were applied in the health monitoring system of wind turbine towers. The dynamic
data of vibrational acceleration and strain gauges can be collected at the different sampling frequencies
of 50, 100, and 150 Hz and transmitted within the tower so that the modal analysis of the towers will be
completed ofﬂine [ 54]. Furthermore, the supervised event server health monitoring system (SESHMS)
was also presented and is considered as a relatively economical system based on the wireless sensor
networks. The system consists of a certain number of Sun SPOTs (Sun Small Programmable Object
Technology), which operates on Java-embedded software and contains an internal accelerometer,
to obtain data and transmit the signals to the neighboring testing node. Then, the complete data
was eventually transmitted to the base station using GSM (global system for mobile communication)
in order to achieve the health monitoring and structural evaluation [ 55]. In addition, Smarsly et al.
studied a decentralized remote system using the digital subscriber line (DSL) connection technique
to record the dynamic data of displacement, acceleration, temperature, and wind speed during the
same time period for further monitoring tasks, such as damage detection and lifetime estimation of
the tower and foundation [56–58].
Recently, the smart wireless sensor networks have also been used for an integral SHM system
of the OWT, consisting of three modules for damage detection, model validation, and evaluation, to
determine the existence, location, and severity of the structural damage of the tower [ 59]. It has been
demonstrated that the new system has a better performance in data acquisition quality and transition
stability. Then, the online force identiﬁcation, sensor fault identiﬁcation, and damage detection of one
5 MW OWT was implemented based on an integrated SHM system, which was proposed to analyze the
measured data online through the internet and provide the operator with the health state information
of wind turbine towers [ 60]. As is well known, the tower and foundation always show the dynamic
behaviors together because they are closely connected to each other. Hence, many systems involving
synchronously monitoring the tower and foundation have begun to appear and be applied for the
OWTs [ 61]. Devriendt et al. discussed a monitoring system which receives the data with a time-stamp
from an timeserver in order to correlate them with the SCADA and Meteo data and be used for the
long-term measurement of an OWT in the Belgian North Sea. It used the online scope-function to
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 8 of 29
monitor and send data to the onshore server using a dedicated ﬁber every 10 min [ 62]. These discussed
systems aim to determine the integrity of the tower and foundation of the wind turbine, as shown in
Figure 4.
The different foundation forms of OWTs, which mainly include monopole, gravity, tripod,
jacket, suction bucket and ﬂoating techniques [ 63,64], require the adaptable health monitoring system.
Wang et al. designed an online monitoring system for the Vestas 3 MW wind turbine with a bucket
foundation to access the structural condition and obtain the modal information [ 63]. Then, an SHM
system based on FBG sensors dedicated to an OWT model supported by a tripod foundation was
presented. It has a good development potential in detecting and localizing the damage based on four
damage indexes due to the better accuracy and can be used for OWTs with tripod foundations [ 65].
The Offshore Wind Infrastructure Lab (OWI-lab) has constructed an SHM system using excitation,
acceleration, and displacement sensors to perform monopole foundation monitoring in the Belwind
offshore wind farm. The researchers focused on the inﬂuence on the resonance frequencies and modal
shapes with the operational and environmental variability and tried to determine any structural
change potentially being concealed [ 66,67]. Also at the Belwind and NorthWind windfarms in the
North Sea, the continuous monitoring of dynamic vibration acceleration and corrosion monitoring
of the corrosion rates, corrosion potential, and oxygen concentration inside the monopole have been
implemented during two years. Furthermore, the monitoring of stress and use of response estimation
techniques at unmeasured locations by combining a limited set of response measurements enables the
life assessment of foundation to be conducted [68].
Sustainability 2019 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 30 
system based on FBG sensors dedicated to an OWT model supported by a tripod foundation was 
presented. It has a good development potential in detecting and localizing the damage based on four 
damage indexes due to the better accuracy and can be used for OWTs with tripod foundations [65]. 
The Offshore Wind Infrastructure Lab (OWI-lab) has constructed an SHM system using excitation, 
acceleration, and displacement sensors to perform monopole foundation monitoring in the Belwind 
offshore wind farm. The researchers focused on the influence on the resonance frequencies and modal shapes with the operational and environmental variability and tried to determine any structural change potentially being concealed [66,67]. Also at the Belwind and NorthWind windfarms in the North Sea, the continuous monitoring of dynamic vi bration acceleration and corrosion monitoring of 
the corrosion rates, corrosion potential, and oxyge n concentration inside the monopole have been 
implemented during two years. Furthermore, the moni toring of stress and use of response estimation 
techniques at unmeasured locations by combining a limited set of response measurements enables 
the life assessment of foundation to be conducted [68]. 
 
Figure 4.  Health monitoring systems of wind turb ines [55,58,59,62]. SESHMS: server health 
monitoring system; WSN: wireless sensor network; DSL: digital subscriber line; DAS: data 
acquisition system 
3. Data Acquisition and Transmission 
Generally speaking, the SCADA and CMS systems of OWTs have independent data acquisition 
and transmission modules to collect the structural dynamic behaviors and operational parameters, 
store signals in a central database, and then send th e data to the onshore control center of the wind 
farm based on the available remote communication ne twork. In the existing monitoring systems, the 
data acquisition tasks should be completed by different kinds of sensors, including displacement transducers, accelerometers, strain gauges, ther mometers, and anemometers, at designed sampling 
frequencies and adaptable software based on many techniques, such as acoustic measurement, monitoring of power quality, and temperature and vibration analysis [26,33,69]. Besides, the laser interferometry [70], photogrammetry [49,71], and thermography [22,50] technologies are also applied 
at the wind farm, especially for blades with compos ite materials, to obtain information for condition 
Figure 4. Health monitoring systems of wind turbines [ 55,58,59,62]. SESHMS: server health monitoring
system; WSN: wireless sensor network; DSL: digital subscriber line; DAS: data acquisition system.
3. Data Acquisition and Transmission
Generally speaking, the SCADA and CMS systems of OWTs have independent data acquisition
and transmission modules to collect the structural dynamic behaviors and operational parameters,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 9 of 29
store signals in a central database, and then send the data to the onshore control center of the wind
farm based on the available remote communication network. In the existing monitoring systems,
the data acquisition tasks should be completed by different kinds of sensors, including displacement
transducers, accelerometers, strain gauges, thermometers, and anemometers, at designed sampling
frequencies and adaptable software based on many techniques, such as acoustic measurement,
monitoring of power quality, and temperature and vibration analysis [ 26,33,69]. Besides, the laser
interferometry [ 70], photogrammetry [ 49,71], and thermography [ 22,50] technologies are also applied
at the wind farm, especially for blades with composite materials, to obtain information for condition
detection and damage identiﬁcation. These advanced methods are further hoped to be used at the
tower and foundation, although the long-term monitoring tasks cannot be implemented at present.
Prior to the speciﬁc analysis of the measured information from OWTs, the storage, management [ 72],
pre-processing [ 73], and mining [ 74] of a large amount of data will be achieved in the speciﬁed database.
It is helpful to delete the redundant information, improving the efﬁciency of analysis and guaranteeing
the accuracy of conclusions. A novel structural health monitoring system which processes the high
volume and high veracity of data sources in an integrated way was applied at the offshore wind
farm in the Belgian North Sea [ 75]. The OWI-lab developed a big wind intelligence data platform
with an integrated relational database and big data No-SQL (Not Only Structured Query Language)
architecture in order to overcome the problem of the traditional data approaches being poorly suited
to handle measured information over a long time period and with different sampling frequencies,
scattered location, and a variety of data ﬁles.
Nowadays, the available remote communication network of offshore wind farms is comprised
of and is implemented mainly based on ﬁber-optics laid in submarine cables which are connected
to the offshore or onshore substations [ 76]. The transmission systems can continuously send the
acquisition data from SCADA and other systems installed in OWTs to the onshore control center using
the dedicated ﬁber which runs over the seabed [ 77]. However, the higher requirements of transmitting
larger amounts of real-time dynamic monitoring data at high frequency have been proposed to
achieve online structural modal identiﬁcation and safety evaluation of OWTs in the future. The WSN
technology has also started to receive recognition [ 78] and has been considered as a key method to
develop the data acquisition and transmission systems for structural health monitoring [79,80].
The monitoring system generally consists of the data acquisition network and data distribution
network, which includes storage and transmission modules mainly using wireless, GPRS (General
Packet Radio Service), Bluetooth, a cellular network, code division multiple access (CMDA), and GSM,
and is usually controlled by the management center [ 81]. Two transmission methods of acquired
data within the turbine have been discussed. On one hand, the signals at all observed points may
directly collect to the base station; on the other hand, the measured information of each node may
be transmitted to the neighboring testing node until the complete data is obtained and is then sent
to the operators [ 55]. At the wind farm, each wind turbine represents a single wireless network
which transmits the measured data to the remote monitoring center by GPRS module in order to
achieve full wireless communication by an optimized routing algorithm [ 37]. However, the increasing
distance between the offshore wind farm and control center, growing data capacity, and more complex
operational environments may bring more challenges to structural health monitoring based on WSN
techniques. Hence, the capacity and reliability of data transmission needs to improve.
The DSL and broadband communication techniques have also attracted more attention in the data
transmission of structural monitoring systems in recent years, especially for wind farms [ 58,61,82].
However, the DSL technique still needs to rely on the physical connection to achieve the information
transmission task between the data acquisition system and the centralized control center. For the
offshore wind farm, its efﬁciency may not have obvious advantages compared with the optical ﬁber
transmission. In addition, the broadband transmission technique also faces the same problem as
the WSN and requires higher data transmission abilities with the development of the offshore wind
power industry.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 10 of 29
4. Feature Information Extraction and Identiﬁcation
The implementation of health monitoring systems of the OWT always serves for the structural
safety evaluation, which depends on the techniques of feature information extraction and identiﬁcation
including modal identiﬁcation, damage detection, and fatigue life assessment. The varieties of feature
information and the occurrence of damage can be obtained and used to ﬁnd the difference between the
current and normal operational conditions in order to determine and evaluate the structural health.
In addition, fatigue analysis can be implemented to determine the service life of OWTs and avoid
unhealthy operation.
4.1. Modal Information Identiﬁcation
The modal identiﬁcation allows the extraction of the structural modal parameters such as modal
frequencies, damping ratios, and mode shapes [ 83], only based on the measured response data induced
by the unknown environmental or operational excitations. As is well known, the modal information
identiﬁed based on vibration signals including the displacement, acceleration, and strain [ 84] under
operational conditions not only reﬂect the dynamic characteristics of the structural vibration, but also
are of great signiﬁcance to the structural safety evaluation. The modal analysis techniques, including
NExT(Natural Excitation Technique), ITD(Ibrahim Time Domain Technique), SSTD (Single Station
Time Domain), ERA (Eigensystem Realization Algorithm), and SSI (Stochastic Subspace Identiﬁcation),
are important means to effectively master the operational behaviors and modal parameters for the large
dams, long bridges, and many tall buildings, especially for the OWT because of the extremely difﬁcult
task in measuring excitations. However, the rotating blades dramatically change the characteristics
of aerodynamic excitations and set limitations, which mainly include time variance and harmonic
interference, on the applicability of operational modal analysis (OMA) to OWTs [85].
Due to the special arrangement of the rotating equipment of the OWT, the structure is excited by
the combination of random excitations, which come from the ocean environment, and the harmonic
inputs resulting from the unbalanced mass of rotating components or ﬂuctuating forces under
the operational conditions at the high rotating speed. Simultaneously, both natural and harmonic
modal information induced by the two above excitations will be found in the structural vibrations.
Especially when the tower height and impeller diameter increase, the difference between the rotating
frequencies and the structural natural frequencies of the wind turbine structure becomes much smaller.
The harmonic components may occupy most of the energy in structural vibration responses under
the high rotating speed conditions. Finally, it will become harder to obtain the structural modal
information by the classic analysis methods, because the vibration of natural modes may be completely
submerged in the harmonic frequency band because of its low energy.
The most critical step to accurately obtain real structural modes is how to handle the strong
inﬂuence of harmonic components mixed in measured data in the operational modal analysis of an
OWT. To overcome this problem, Brincker ﬁrstly presented the concept of harmonic modes, which were
considered as the modes consisting of the harmonic components with higher vibration energy in the
responses resulting from the stable harmonic excitations during the process of operational modal
identiﬁcation [ 86]. The subsequent research proposed an indicator to distinguish the real structural
modal information from harmonic modes, which were later considered as the false modes, with
the modal frequencies being the same as the harmonic excitation frequencies and zero damping
ratios, in output-only modal experiments based on the probability density function (PDF) method.
Afterward, aiming at dealing with the harmonic interference on the operational modal analysis,
many researchers tried to ﬁlter out the harmonic components ahead of the modal identiﬁcation so that
the measured vibration data would only contain the real structural modal information [ 87]. However,
useful components may easily be lost without choosing a suitable ﬁlter because of the closer distance
between the natural and harmonic modal frequencies. The differences in statistical properties between
structural and harmonic signals, such as kurtosis and the PDF, have also been analyzed and utilized to
distinguish the actual structural modes from the unknown harmonic modes by using the frequency
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 11 of 29
domain decomposition (FDD) method, singular value decomposition (SVD) method, and random
decrement technique (RDT). Nevertheless, when the structural information is completely submerged
in the harmonic components, the actual modal parameters cannot be obtained properly and the results
will lead to unavoidable deﬁciency [ 88–91]. In addition, Pintelon proposed two algorithms, which are
respectively based on the single-output signal and multi-output signals for suppressing and removing
the harmonic inﬂuence with unknown varying frequencies in the continuous-time operational modal
analysis [ 92,93]. However, good results could only be obtained when the distinction between the
structural modal and harmonic frequency was clear. Additionally, differentiating the actual structural
and harmonic modes has been achieved successively by using the new theory of transmissibility
function [ 94,95], Hilbert–Huang transformation [ 96], and optimized spectral kurtosis [ 97], but then the
ability of these methods to extract the modal information under strong harmonic disturbances needs
to be further studied. Mohanty [ 98–100] had modiﬁed several classic modal identiﬁcation methods,
including the ITD, ERA, and SSTD method, to obtain the actual modal information considering the
inﬂuence originating from the harmonics on the characteristic matrix of the structural system. However,
it also has a limitation in engineering applications because the defect of the algorithm itself and its
poor noise resistance may lead to unstable identiﬁcation results.
In an actual project of the offshore wind power, the original related study on the operational
modal identiﬁcation for one 100 kW OWT in Demark was completed by using the NExT method and
both the real modes and harmonic modes were identiﬁed based on the authenticity of the modes
depending on the zero-value property of harmonic modes [ 101,102]. However, one can also ﬁnd
that the ﬁrst modal frequency has been affected by the 1P harmonic due to the smaller frequency
difference. Thereafter, Hansen utilized the SSI method to obtain the operational modal frequencies
and damping ratios successively based on measured strain data with no coincidences between the
harmonic frequencies and the actual modal frequencies [ 103]. Furthermore, to overcome the limitations
of the periodically time-variant nature and the presence of harmonic components, a linear system
identiﬁcation methodology based on the Mathieu oscillator [ 104] and a Blind Source Separation and
Independent Component Analysis (BSS/ICA) method [ 105] were also proposed to eliminate the
interference resulted from rotating blades during the OMA process of the OWT. Similarly, the modal
identiﬁcation of both the blades and tower has been completed by Tcherniak based on the data
measured in the wind turbine structure [ 106]. Additionally, a new modal identiﬁcation method called
the harmonic modiﬁed stochastic subspace identiﬁcation (HM-SSI) method was proposed on the basis
of Mohanty’s ideas, which introduced the strong harmonic interference information obtained from
measurement data into the traditional SSI method to possess stronger anti-noise capabilities and better
recognition stability. Subsequently, this new method was used to successfully achieve the operational
modal identiﬁcation and safety evaluation of the OWT structure [ 107]. The modiﬁed SSI technique
considering harmonic inﬂuence was also used to achieve the rapid structural health assessment of
the wind turbine structure by analyzing the relationship between identiﬁed modal frequencies and
harmonics [108].
Apart from the operational modal analysis under the operational conditions with strong harmonic
inﬂuence, studies have also been implemented under standstill conditions or operational conditions at
a low rotating speed in order to avoid the harmonic inﬂuence and accurately identify the real modal
information of wind turbines. For example, the natural frequency and modal damping of the OWT
supported by the monopole foundation were ﬁrst identiﬁed by Damgaard for different Danish wind
farms based on a thorough investigation of “rotor-stop” experiments for more than ﬁve years [ 109].
Then, the enhanced frequency domain decomposition (EFDD) method was applied to a 3.6 MW
OWT’s responses under ambient excitation for the estimation of the damping in normal operation
with low wind speed [ 110]. Bajri´ c recently proposed an automated procedure based on the real
vibration measurements and covariance-driven stochastic subspace identiﬁcation (COV-SSI) method
to identify the modal damping ratios of an OWT under nonoperating conditions [ 111]. In addition,
Hu combined the poly-reference least Squares complex frequency domain (p-LSCF) method with a
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 12 of 29
data-driven stochastic subspace identiﬁcation (DATA-SSI) approach and focused on the resonance
phenomenon and environmental and operational inﬂuences on structural dynamic properties under
normal operational conditions of a wind turbine system for a 5 MW wind turbine, on the basis of
dynamic signals acquired continuously from the tubular tower over a period of two years [ 112,113].
It can be obviously found that the harmonic components in the vibration responses did not affect
the natural modal information, because the identiﬁed modal frequencies at 0.41 Hz are far from the
maximum 1P harmonic frequency at 0.25 Hz at the rotating speed of 15 rpm. The similar conclusion was
also proposed by Häckell, comparing the ﬁrst eigenfrequency at 0.33 Hz with the harmonic frequency
at 0.25 Hz [ 114]. It is illustrated that the measured OWTs were designed to increase the structural
modal frequency or reduce the rotating speed in order to widen the frequency interval between
structure and excitations. In recent years, the OWI-lab also made more contributions to the structural
operational modal analysis of OWTs. They tried to construct a complete set of monitoring systems
and perfect the automated operational modal analysis method based on the measured data of wind
turbines in the Belgian North Sea [ 115–117]. Simultaneously, the comparative studies using different
techniques aimed at identifying the modal parameters were presented and the potential beneﬁt of the
continued health monitoring and operational modal analysis campaign was discussed [118–120].
4.2. Structural Damage Detection
Considering the long-term and possible unhealthy operation of the OWT under environmental
excitations, structural damage may happen to many components, including the blades and tower.
If the early damage is ignored or allowed to continue to develop and no timely repair action is taken,
the failure risk may occur and lead to the structural collapse. Currently, the most extensive attention
on damage detection and structural safety has been given to the blades and tower of the OWT. This is
because that, on one hand, they are the most important components and comprise more than 40%
of the total cost; on the other hand, they are also the most ﬂexible and vulnerable parts because of
the length, size, and material properties of blades and the height of the tower, often exceeding 80 m.
In addition, the numerous connections of the tower are exposed to a corrosion environment and very
sensitive to the external excitations. Therefore, the damage detection techniques have been rapidly
developed and widely applied in the structural safety evaluation of wind turbines in recent years.
The fundamentals of damage detection depend on the changes in local mass, stiffness,
and structural modal properties including modal frequencies, damping ratios, mode shapes, and other
derived dynamic properties between the healthy and damaged states and will also be reﬂected in many
corresponding indexes, such as the ASL, RMSD [ 121], WP [ 122], and VIB [ 122]. Hence, the structural
damage can be identiﬁed, located, and even evaluated to a certain extent based on the measurement of
changes in these properties and calculation with the above indexes [ 123]. The most common method
of structural damage detection is considered as modal analysis or a model-based method, because
the modal parameters have a direct relationship with the structural physical properties, which will
change when the damage occurs. Furthermore, the variation that happens in the physical properties
will lead to the detectable change in the modal properties, which can be used as a criterion to locate the
damage [ 124]. One structural health monitoring approach of a wind turbine was implemented and the
relationship between the natural modal frequencies and the stiffness reduction at the root of the blade
was also discussed by using modal analysis based on acceleration data. The modal deﬂections and
modal assurance criterion (MAC) were both used to determine the damage, and the damage feature
may be extracted to provide the ability to both locate and quantify the reduction in stiffness in the
blade root [ 125]. Considering the geometric nonlinearity, a new approach was proposed to calculate
the modal strain energy (MSE) index in the nonlinear modeling of a generic 5-MW NREL blade and
discuss the effect of damage length, location, and severity and also the effect of rotational speed and
load amplitude. The result, being that the mode shape curvature and MSE indices have enough
sensitivity to structural damage, was certiﬁed [ 126]. Simultaneously, a modern damage detection
method based on wavelet transform has been presented to detect damage in the blades of large wind
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 13 of 29
turbines during normal operational conditions. This research is expected to provide a novel way to
determine the damage location for the OWT structure [ 127]. Wang proposed a damage detection and
diagnosis method for wind turbine blades based on dynamics analysis and mode shape difference
curvature information [ 128]. It also provides a low-cost and efﬁcient, nondestructive tool for wind
turbine blade condition monitoring.
In addition to combination with modal analysis methods, the structural strain ﬁeld data also
plays an important role in detecting the damage existing in the wind turbine structure, including
the blades and tower, because the slight change of structural physical properties may lead to the
redistribution of structural strain. Generally speaking, the strain difference between adjacent strain
sensors can be considered as an index of the presence of a crack and used as a feasible strategy to
achieve remote fatigue damage detection for OWT towers. However, the success mainly depends on
the reasonable arrangement of strain sensors around the tower and the prediction of extreme wind
conditions [ 129]. To compare the capabilities of various strain sensors including ﬁber Bragg gratings
(FBG), optical backscatter reﬂectometer (OBR), and normal strain gauges in damage detection, a pattern
recognition technique using hierarchical nonlinear principal component analysis (h-NLPCA) based
on the strain ﬁeld measurement was described to detect damage during the certiﬁcation test of the
blades [ 130]. Based on the experimental results, the FBGs have more advantages over the strain gauges.
FBGs are suitable for being embedded into the composite materials directly during the operational
process of OWTs and monitoring more internal changes in strain, which strain gauges bonded onto
the surface cannot achieve. In addition, the FBGs have a longer life in service health monitoring
and damage detection systems based on strain measurements for offshore wind farms. Thereafter,
Downey studied a hybrid dense sensor network consisting of thin-ﬁlm sensors and FBGs and proposed
a data-driven damage detection and localization method for wind turbine blades. This technique
utilizes the error between the estimated strain maps and measures strains to deﬁne damage detection
features and applies a novel method for inspecting large numbers of sensors without the need for
complex model-driven approaches by fusing sensor data into a single damage detection feature [ 131].
The existence of damage, which comes from cracks, fractures, deformation, dislocation movement,
delamination, and other reasons [ 132], will result in the redistribution of structural strain and have an
obvious effect on the wave propagation and reﬂection on the structural surface or inside the structure.
Hence, the difference of wave properties between normal and damage status can be obtained and
applied in crack detection. Acoustic emission (AE) is the most popular technique of structural damage
detection, especially for the wind turbine blades consisting of composite materials. The static and
fatigue experiments of wind turbine blades were implemented and demonstrated the possibility of
detecting the source of damage events and evaluating the condition of ﬁber composite blades using
an AE monitoring system [ 133]. It can also be used to ﬁnd out how the blade fails and how the
failures propagate through the series of tests exposed to a large ﬂapwise load [ 134]. Furthermore,
many researchers have studied AE combined with advanced methods such as the passive structural
neural system (SNS) [ 135] and thermoelastic stress measurement [ 136] and achieved the tests by
using additional sensors including piezoceramic (PZT) patches, accelerometers, and strain gauges in
order to improve the abilities in detecting both small cracks and damage [ 137–139]. Simultaneously,
the comparative study results show that AE has better capability in detecting very small damages and
is suitable to locate the spatial position and size of evolving damages [ 140]. Another nondestructive
testing (NDT) technique for the wind turbine structure based on wave propagation and reﬂection is
ultrasound. The main principle can be described as such: the ultrasonic pulse is sent into the blades
or tower by an ultrasonic transducer and reﬂected at the back wall or at ﬂaws within the material,
which is recorded by the same sensors. The defect will be detected based on the data information
about the thickness of the inspected structure obtained by the ultrasonic waves [ 141]. Furthermore,
it has been shown that the ultrasonic technique may be used with imaging methods aimed at directly
detecting and observing the structural damage and its change. A portable long-distance ultrasonic
propagation imaging (LUPI) system has been studied by using anomalous wave propagation imaging
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 14 of 29
(AWPI) methods and was veriﬁed to be possible to apply at the wind farms [ 142]. Then, a similar
study presented a laser ultrasonic imaging and damage detection technique which can create images of
ultrasonic waves propagating on the rotating structure and thus identify damage [ 143]. However, it has
limitations regarding the inspection region, which needs a large number of wired sensors to be installed
and the difﬁcult ﬁeld measurement on rotating objects using the noncontact laser interferometer.
For the OWTs under operational conditions, the conventional nondestructive testing and defect
identiﬁcation techniques cannot fully meet the requirement of structural damage detection because
the rotating blades pose more difﬁculties to the ﬁeld measurement and structural health assessment.
However, the development of thermography, photogrammetry, and other imaging methods will
help to successfully achieve the operational damage detection at offshore wind farms. The thermal
imaging method is a subsurface defect or anomaly detection method, owing to temperature differences
observed on the investigated surface, such as the wind turbine blade, during monitoring by using
infrared sensors or cameras. The temperature difference is related to the change of thermal diffusivity
and hence indicates material irregularity or damage [ 144]. The thermal imaging techniques on line laser
thermography [ 50], infrared thermography, and pulsed thermography [ 145] were applied to complete
the tasks on damage inspection and defect localization of blades, respectively. Thermography offers
signiﬁcant advantages over the NDT because of its fast, wide-area inspection capabilities and fully
noncontact mechanism. Photogrammetry is a new measurement technique which is used to obtain 3D
coordinates or displacements of an object based on the 2D images taken from different locations and
orientations [ 146]. This method will be called videogrammetry when the sequences of pictures are used
to monitor and collect the structural dynamic responses [ 71]. Photogrammetry can be efﬁciently applied
in different research ﬁelds, such as full-ﬁeld vibration monitoring, shape information extraction [ 147],
structural deformation measurement [ 148,149], and blade inspection [ 150,151]. Combined with the
digital image correlation (DIC) method, the ﬁeld measurement of the deformation and strain of the
blades was performed and the fault location and discontinuity were also identiﬁed. It reﬂects a great
potential of the optical measurement technique and its potential for use in the wind industry for
large-area inspection [ 152]. X-ray imaging [ 51] and laser Doppler vibrometry (LDV) [ 153] are both
effective methods for measuring the internal structural change and responses in order to detect the
damage. The former is sensitive enough to detect the change of at least 1–2% of the material thickness
or density and can locate the internal inhomogeneities within the depth of the material [154].
As a basis of the NDT techniques, research on damage diagnosis algorithms and damage
prediction methods have been completed to achieve the fast and accurate detection tasks on the
wind turbine structure. An auto-associative neural network (AANN) and a novel approach to
auto-association with radial basis functions (RBFs) networks were both used to propose the new
algorithms [ 155]. The effectiveness of such pattern recognition methods was also veriﬁed based on
the measured vibration data. In order to accurately predict the danger when the turbine will reach a
damaged state, a damage prediction system for wind turbines based on a wireless sensor and actuator
network was studied and was expected to take timely actions and protect the turbine operation from
accidents [ 156]. These results may realize in damage detection and safety evaluation at offshore wind
farms in the future.
4.3. Fatigue Life Assessment
Due to the complex ocean environment, the OWT is always subject to various cyclic excitations,
such as those from wind, waves, currents, and rotor operation, which may pose risks of damage,
failure, and fatigue to the structures. In order to avoid structural failure risk and determine the service
time, studies on fatigue assessment have been widely implemented recently. First, the consideration of
fatigue analysis can be denoted as the measurement and calculation of long-term fatigue loads acting
on OWT structures. Generally speaking, it is still difﬁcult for researchers and engineers to directly
elucidate the excitations resulting from the environment and rotor operation, especially under extreme
and fatigue conditions. A test system based on the Labview platform and control area network (CAN)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 15 of 29
was proposed to achieve data automatic acquisition, stable transmission, and real-time monitoring for
fatigue loads and fatigue lifetime prediction of wind turbine blades [ 157]. It was indicated that the
system has satisfactory accuracy, good adaptation, and great practicality for the load measurement
and fatigue life estimation of a large wind turbine. However, the fatigue load of OWTs may mostly be
obtained by standards, mainly including the IEC 61400-1 standard and the Germanischer Lloyd (GL)
guideline [ 158], numerical simulation, and theoretical calculation. Considering short-term ﬂuctuations
resulting from the turbulence, Repetto proposed the long-term Monte Carlo simulation method of
the bending moment, which is related to the mean wind speed. The rainﬂow counting algorithm
is the common method to be applied in generating different time series of stress with time length
ranging between 10 min and three days [ 159]. Apart from the wind excitations, the wave loads also
have an obvious and important inﬂuence on the OWT, especially for the bottom-supported structure.
A research on fatigue loads was processed based on the nonlinear wave models with consideration for
different mean wind speeds and turbulence intensities. The results indicate that the hydrodynamic
and aerodynamic loads mainly acting on OWTs may play a different degree of the role in the structural
fatigue analysis under standstill and operational conditions [160].
The blades of the OWTs are very sensitive to subtle damage and fatigue loads because of
the structural properties of their composite materials. The regulations, including ICE and GL,
and numerical simulation methods can be directly used to achieve the blade design and fatigue
assessment [ 161,162]. The fatigue life of the OWT blades can also be estimated by using the well-known
S–N linear damage theory, the service load spectrum, and the Spera’s empirical equations. Additionally,
the fatigue behaviors in response to the vibration at different frequencies and the operational life
prediction of wind turbine blades were studied using a numerical method. It also provides a way
to compare the material properties and ﬁnd out the optimum material body [ 163]. Furthermore,
many full-scale experiments on OWT blades have been widely implemented to obtain the dynamic
performance, evaluate fatigue life, and even develop smart fatigue load control methods [ 164] before
they are applied in offshore wind farms. The numerical simulations are always used to verify the
reliability of test results [ 165] or present a novel method to improve the accuracy and efﬁciency of
experiments [ 166]. Recently, lots of new methods and models on fatigue life prediction and assessment
have been discussed. Yun aimed to develop a fatigue life prediction method and to identify the
effect on the fatigue life of wind turbine blades resulting from the mean wind speed distribution,
which can be obtained by the combination of the von Karman isotropic turbulence model and the
Weibull distribution [ 167]. The fatigue stress spectra were created by applying a stress tensor, and the
fatigue life could be predicted based on the P–S–N curve obtained from the constant amplitude fatigue
tests and cumulative damage rule to the fatigue stress spectra based on the rainﬂow cycle counting.
Caous proposed a progressive damage model by the ply scale to overcome the limitations of fatigue
design optimization on wind turbine blades. The new model was also compared with the normative
approach for the fatigue assessment and demonstrated its advantage in providing useful information
to understand damage propagation [168].
The tower and foundation structures of OWTs are also subject to continuous external excitations
and face the risk of fatigue failure. On one hand, fatigue damage may easily occur and propagate
in the weak positions or connection parts of steel towers and foundations induced by the long-term
excitations because of the nonideal stress distribution or poor material properties. On the other hand,
the harsh ocean environment may lead to possible dangerous incidents, especially for the foundations,
which are always submerged in seawater, leading to structural component corrosion or the decrease of
material strength. Theoretical analysis and numerical simulation are common and important methods
in dealing with the fatigue assessment of OWTs. Yeter carried out the fatigue damage assessment
on a ﬁxed OWT support structure based on ﬁnite element analysis and the combined wave- and
wind-induced excitations [ 169,170]. A wave scatter diagram of the North Atlantic, the rainﬂow
cycle counting method, and S–N fatigue damage approach were all applied in the research in order
to account for the environmental effects, count the total number of cycles, and estimate fatigue
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 16 of 29
damage, respectively. Kelma used the peak over threshold method to complete the fatigue analysis
and ﬁnd the probability distribution of the very high stress ranges on the tubular joints of a jacket
substructure [ 171]. It was indicated that the number of the very high stress ranges and scattering for
different time series has a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the resulting fatigue damage based on the application
of the maximum-likelihood estimation method. Kvittem studied the discretization of the joint wind
and wave distribution including the necessary simulation duration, number of random realizations,
and bin sizes in order to achieve the long-term time-domain analysis of the nominal stress [ 172].
It was completed for the fatigue assessment of the tower and platform members of a three-column
semisubmersible structure. An analytical gradient-based method was proposed to solve the problem
of the design optimization of OWT structures in an effective and efﬁcient way [ 173]. The researches
on UpWind jacket substructures showed that the design sensitivities of the objective and constraint
functions were discussed subjected to size, eigenfrequency, extreme load, and fatigue load constraints
while the optimization procedure is performed in the time domain. The inﬂuence of changes in soil
parameters on the fatigue lifetime of OWTs with a monopile structure has been studied in loose sand.
It is explained that changes in soil parameters and soil–pile interaction should be taken into account in
the fatigue damage calculations of OWTs for more precise lifetime estimation [174].
Field measurement provides another effective means for the fatigue analysis of OWTs. The strain
sensors are always installed around the tower and connection part of the foundation to collect the
response reﬂecting structural dynamic characteristics. Benedetti ﬁrstly used the measured data from the
tower bottom of a GAIA wind turbine to detect the tracks, and then investigated the possible strategies
for residual fatigue life assessment and operational management to determine the number of sensors
in turn [ 175]. The material strength characteristics obtained from fracture mechanics experiments can
be used to estimate the critical crack size based on fracture toughness tests, elastoplastic ﬁnite element
analyses, and loading spectra under extreme wind conditions, and the residual life before the structural
collapse. A measurement on a fully instrumented 3.6 MW OWT was used for the estimation of the
side–side fatigue loads at the tower bottom considering wind–wave misalignment [ 176]. The numerical
model was also set up to simulate the effect of damping on the side–side fatigue based on a turbulent
wind ﬁeld, irregular waves, and ﬂexible soil, and the sensitivity of the side–side fatigue to the
wind–wave misalignment and different values of additional offshore damping in the system was
proposed. A new fatigue monitoring strategy, which was proposed by the OWI-lab, focused on how
environmental and operational conditions will ultimately affect the fatigue life of OWTs based on
measured strain data [ 177]. It is expected to use the observed relations to build a system which will
allow the performing of farm-wide fatigue assessment. Simultaneously, another research area of
the OWI-lab mainly aims to discuss how the load measurements can be translated into the fatigue
assessment of OWTs under operational conditions [ 178]. The fatigue progression can be observed by
calculating the damage equivalent loads and analyzed against turbulence and site conditions.
5. Reliability Analysis and Safety Evaluation
The feature information extraction and identiﬁcation of OWTs ultimately serve for the structural
reliability analysis and safety evaluation. Reliability analysis aims at quantifying the probability of
structural failure and seeking suitable methods to promote the safe operation of the OWT system and
enhance reliability management. Safety evaluation is considered as an effective process to identify and
analyze failure risks, usually based on measured data, and determine safety strategies and precautions
for offshore wind farms [ 179]. CMS and SCADA systems are common tools to achieve the structural
reliability analysis based on the measured data from operational wind turbines [ 180,181]. However,
in recent years, many kinds of novel studies have been completed for the reliability analysis and safety
evaluation of OWTs in order to improve the accuracy and feasibility. Considering random material
strength, material spatial correlation, progressive material failure, and system reliability effects as
main effect factors, a multiaxial probabilistic load model was used to propose a methodology for the
structural reliability analysis of wind turbine blades [ 182]. The data collected from the Windstats survey,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 17 of 29
which have characteristics common to practical reliability surveys, was used by Tavner to analyze
the reliability of wind turbine components [ 183]. It is also explained that the wind turbine reliability
can be predicted by using grouped survey data and that the turbine design, turbine conﬁguration,
time, weather, and possibly maintenance can affect the extracted results. Thereafter, Guo proposed
a three-parameter Weibull failure rate function, which has higher accuracy on the reliability growth
of wind turbines, to meet the needs of a more general mathematical model and algorithms for wind
turbines [ 184]. The new method will be applicable to the lifetime test of the components and helpful
in the understanding of the reliability growth of wind energy systems. Yao set up a ﬁnite element
model of the wind turbine tower and analyzed the stress distribution induced by wind excitations.
The fatigue loads, wind speed distribution, and mean time to failure (MTTF) of towers were calculated
with a quantitative reliability theory to implement the reliability analysis of wind turbine towers [ 185].
The limit state function (LSF) deﬁned by using the structural dynamic response at the mud-line and
the dynamic response expressed as the static response multiplied by the peak response factor (PRF)
were both considered in the performed reliability analysis of an OWT with a jacket foundation under
extreme ocean environmental loads [ 186]. It is indicated that the reliability index can be found using
the ﬁrst order reliability method (FORM). Furthermore, the impact of turbulence and wave loads,
obtained from the full joint probability distribution of wind speed, Monte Carlo (MC) simulations, and
IEC standards, on the fatigue reliability of the pile foundations for a 5 MW OWT was investigated [ 187].
The study results aimed to quantify the inﬂuence of environmental models on monopile reliability
based on the estimated probability of failure. Zhang provided the explicit internal relation of systems
and the preconditions of failure mode analysis in order to propose the ﬂoating wind power equipment
system based on its structure and function [ 188]. Dynamic fault tree analysis on ﬂoating wind turbines
was conducted to discuss sequentially dependent failures and redundancy failures with a search on
the failure rates of relevant offshore structures according to previous studies, databases, and reports.
To achieve the structural safety evaluation, two strategically located bidirectional accelerometers
were installed on the towers of four OWTs by Gomez to establish a monitoring system and correlate
frequency measurements with the overall structural performance of the monopile foundations.
The operational modal analysis and system identiﬁcation techniques were used to obtain frequencies,
which were correlated to speciﬁc structural performance limit states, including the resonance between
the tower and turbine rotor, lack of foundation stability, and yielding of the foundation material,
based on the acceleration responses and calibrated computer models [ 189]. Based on a risk assessment
for wind farms during the operation condition, Garcia improved the proactive safety standards and
developed a systematic pattern which allows the employers to better handle an emergency event [ 190].
An occupational risk-scoring method was also proposed for the production stage of wind turbines and
all processes [ 191]. Dong proposed an integral operational modal identiﬁcation method of the OWT in
the range of full power based on traditional and modiﬁed SSI techniques and illustrated the modal
identiﬁcation results and the relationship between modal parameters and environmental/operational
factors [ 107,192]. Additionally, the modiﬁed SSI technique considering harmonic inﬂuence was also
used to achieve the structural health assessment of the wind turbine structure by analyzing the
relationship between identiﬁed modal frequencies and harmonics.
6. Intelligent Operation and Maintenance
After the reliability analysis and safety evaluation of OWTs, the tasks on intelligent operational and
maintenance (IO&M) should be implemented in a timely manner based on the condition monitoring
and existing problems at offshore wind farms. Generally speaking, operational and maintenance
(O&M) costs can account for 10%–20% of the total costs of energy for a wind energy project [ 193].
The O&M of offshore wind power aims to reduce the costs and increase the power generation of
wind turbines and customer revenue throughout the life cycle. Optimal operational and maintenance
strategies can be used to aid in improving the reliability and the availability of wind turbines and
making them more competitive. The most obvious difference between the O&M of offshore wind power
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 18 of 29
and onshore wind power can be considered to be the poor accessibility, which makes the O&M of OWTs
more difﬁcult and increases the cost due to taking into account many problems such as the distance,
weather and sea conditions, unit failure rate, maintenance behavior, power generation capacity,
and O&M economy. Hence, more novel techniques for improving maintainability and intelligent
operation should be explored and evaluated from both structural safety and beneﬁt-to-cost standpoints.
The operational and maintenance strategy of OWTs can usually be implemented by combining
preventive and corrective maintenance. Preventive maintenance is the maintenance carried
out before failures occur; on the contrary, corrective maintenance will be carried out after
failures occur [ 194]. Furthermore, preventive maintenance includes scheduled and condition-based
maintenance (CBM), which can be used to reduce the operation and maintenance costs of wind
power systems. The application of CMSs makes the CBM a good option to reduce the cost related
to maintenance [ 195,196]. Two failure probability thresholds at the wind turbine level were used to
deﬁne an optimal CBM method and new maintenance policy. The failure probability values at the
components and turbine levels can be calculated with the optimal CBM decisions based on condition
monitoring and prognostics information [ 197]. Additionally, reliability-centered maintenance (RCM)
can be considered as a systematic method to maintain the balance between preventive and corrective
maintenance [ 194]. Fischer studied the failure frequencies and consequences of critical subsystems in
wind turbines, revealed functional failures and underlying causes, and proposed remedial measures
in order to prevent both failure and secondary damage. It is used to provide the development of
quantitative models with maintenance strategy selection and optimization [198].
In order to improve the effectiveness and efﬁciency of the OWT maintenance, many pieces of
research on IO&M have been implemented. The impacts of wind turbine components’ maintenance
on downtime was established by using the failure rates, the downtime information, and failure risk
based on an improved six-state Markov model [ 199]. Taking advantage of operation and maintenance
data from different sources, a maintenance management framework of the wind turbine was proposed
to combine the beneﬁts of age-based and condition-based maintenance scheduling. The problem
that the traditional models only provide either an age-based or a condition-based preventive
maintenance schedule can be solved using the proposed framework. A modiﬁed mathematical model
called preventive maintenance scheduling problem with interval costs (PMSPIC) was presented for
maintenance optimization, considering both age-based and condition-based failure rate models [ 200].
IO&M has a more important inﬂuence on the structural safety and reliability of OWTs. However,
more advanced development of techniques and systems should be achieved in the future. On one
hand, these existing techniques are not yet ready to be used and urgently need to be applied and
proven in practice in order to allow their large-scale application in OWTs [ 201]. On the other hand,
with the distance farther away from the mainland, it will be a signiﬁcant act to establish the OWT
maintenance information network and the remote IO&M systems to control and manage the offshore
wind farms [15].
7. Discussion
The offshore wind resource has great potential in substituting fossil energy and satisfying the
necessary energy need for the development of human society. However, with the rapid development
of the offshore wind power industry, the problems of structural safety and reliability obtain more
attention and may pose obstacles in exploring wind power in the deep ocean. Therefore, the problems
that must still be overcome and the future development of abovementioned techniques for OWTs may
be discussed as follows:
(1) How can the measured data be collected and transmitted more effectively? Data resources are
the research foundation for the online health monitoring and structural safety evaluation of the
OWTs. Considering big data theory, establishing a standard database based on a large amount of
operational data is of great significance to the innovation of structural health evaluation methods
and the grasp of the catastrophe evolution mechanism of the OWTs. The establishment of a database
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 19 of 29
may consist of data acquisition, data storage, and data transmission. Some research is needed
to assess the potential of new measurement devices, such as Lidar and wireless sensors [ 202].
The reliability assessment mechanism and quality evaluation criteria should be adopted to ensure
the integrity, accuracy, and timeliness of the measured data. Simultaneously, the future development
of offshore wind power will involve moving even further away from the mainland and into deeper
waters [ 203]. There are still many technological challenges in the transmission and integration of
measured data further away from the shore. The conventional transmission method based on
seabed optical fiber should also be modified to meet the requirement of the real-time transmission
of massive monitoring data obtained from different sensors in order to improve the efficiency of
the online monitoring and safety evaluation of OWTs.
(2) How can the feature information on structural safety be obtained more accurately? It is
still difﬁcult for engineers to directly measure the external excitations or accurately simulate
environmental loads only based on empirical formulas and numerical tools. Simultaneously,
due to the continuously rotating blades of OWTs under the operational conditions, structural
feature information reﬂected in measured data may be obviously affected and even be submerged
in harmonic excitation interference. Without the clear excitation characteristics and structural
responses data, it will pose difﬁculties in obtaining the accurate feature information, such as
modal parameters and damage. On one hand, the further studies may mainly focus on sensor
optimization distribution and large area sensing techniques to collect more accurate detail about
the structural health or working status [ 204]. On the other hand, more effective methods and
algorithms should be innovated and improved to achieve excitation measurement and reduce
the inﬂuence on the accuracy of key information identiﬁcation resulting from different factors.
(3) How can the safety indicators be determined and the evaluation system be established more
reasonably? The operation abnormality of the OWT can be reﬂected in the monitoring data.
After extracting the feature information from the measured data, it is necessary to explain
the inﬂuence on the OWT structures resulting from the abnormal operation based on suitable
indexes or analysis methods. However, due to the inﬂuence of the external environment and
harmonic excitations, it is more difﬁcult to directly extract safety effect factors from monitoring
data and determine safety-sensitive indicators. In future research, the key indicators which
affect the structural operational safety and the links between the information contained in
the measured data and indicators need to be developed and established. Furthermore, novel
intelligent algorithms on modal parameter identiﬁcation and statistical pattern recognition need
to be studied to realize the intelligent characterization of structural feature information. It is also
important to ﬁnd multiple evaluation indicators with better sensitivity and integrate a health
assessment indicator system based on the weight of each evaluation index under the abnormality
changes, in order to achieve more comprehensive and reliable health evaluation for the OWTs.
(4) How can the health monitoring and the safety evaluation system be improved and optimized?
The improved techniques cannot only be used in the single components, such as the gearbox,
generator, blade, tower, and foundation, but also need to be applied in all portions of the wind
turbine as a whole [ 205,206]. It will be easier to understand the structural dynamic behavior
and develop the appropriate algorithms or systems for the health monitoring and the safety
evaluation of the OWTs. In addition, more optimization methods may be utilized in systems
in order to gain more accurate identiﬁcation of the different feature information and safety
evaluation with multiobjective optimization [ 207]. With the continuous development of scale and
water depth for the offshore wind power industry, the standard database and digital integrated
monitoring equipment of the whole offshore wind turbines with multi-integrated evaluation
indexes must urgently be established for remote health monitoring systems in the future to
promote the exploration of intelligent offshore wind farms.
(5) How can the intelligent operation and maintenance of offshore wind farms be achieved more
effectively and economically? The current operation and maintenance of OWT still stays at the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 20 of 29
stage of descriptive analysis, and post-fault diagnosis in actual projects lack in pre-judgment
assessment and real-time measures. However, with the widespread application of emerging IT
technologies such as big data and cloud computing, the use of internet technologies to improve
the structural operational stability and the efﬁciency of wind power generation has become a new
trend in the offshore wind power industry. These novel techniques can provide the managers
and operators with a reasonable tool to transfer from corrective O&M to preventive O&M.
Furthermore, the emerging IT technologies also can be applied in IO&M including data collection
and storage, fault detection, real-time weather and power prediction, fault diagnosis and fault
pre-judgment in order to reduce the unnecessary economic cost. It is hoped that a fully automated
intelligent operation and maintenance system without human intervention can be designed and
applied in offshore wind farms in the future.
8. Conclusions
This paper has reviewed the current status of existing health monitoring systems and
safety evaluation techniques for OWTs and discussed the key problems and future development.
The principal conclusions were drawn as follows:
(1) SCADA systems and CMS are considered as the two most common types of health monitoring
systems of the OWT structure. However, both systems have been attempted to be integrated into
each other to signiﬁcantly improve the efﬁciency and accuracy of the structural health monitoring
of the OWTs. The design and optimization on overall monitoring systems for the whole OWT
structure will be the future development trend.
(2) At present, most research focuses on the novel techniques of feature information extraction and
identiﬁcation. However, the effective indexes and safety evaluation systems which can integrate
multiple identiﬁcation technologies have rarely been proposed and constructed to evaluate the
operational safety of OWTs.
(3) The intelligent operation and maintenance of offshore wind farms, especially in the deep sea,
are hoped to be more effective and economic in the future. Internet technologies and information
technologies may provide the managers and operators with a reasonable tool to achieve this target.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, J.L. and X.D.; investigation, X.D., O.C., Q.J. and Y.Z.; data curation,
X.D.; writing—original draft preparation, X.D., O.C.; writing—review and editing, J.L. and X.D.; supervision, J.L.;
project administration, J.L. and X.D.; funding acquisition, J.L. and X.D.
Funding: This research was funded by the Innovation Method Fund of China (Grant No. 2016IM030100), the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 51709202), and the Tianjin Science and Technology
Program (Grant No. 16PTGCCX00160).
Acknowledgments: All workers from the State Key Laboratory of Hydraulic Engineering Simulation and Safety
of Tianjin University are acknowledged. The writers acknowledge the assistance of anonymous reviewers as well.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Global Wind Energy Council. Global Wind Statistics 2017. Global Statistics. 2018. Available online:
http://gwec.net/global-ﬁgures/graphs/ (accessed on 15 April 2018).
2. Igba, J.; Alemzadeh, K.; Durugbo, C.; Eiriksson, E.T. Through-life engineering services of wind turbines.
CIRP J. Manuf. Sci. Technol. 2016 ,17, 60–70. [CrossRef]
3. Zheng, T.; Qiang, M.; Chen, W.; Xia, B.; Wang, J. An externality evaluation model for hydropower projects:
A case study of the Three Gorges Project. Energy 2016 ,108, 74–85. [CrossRef]
4. Rodrigues, S.; Restrepo, C.; Kontos, E.; Pinto, R.T.; Bauer, T. Trends of offshore wind projects. Renew. Sustain.
Energy Rev. 2015 ,49, 1114–1135. [CrossRef]
5. Antonio, C.S.; Javier, P .P .; David, B.D.; Carlos, D.R. Offshore wind energy: A review of the current status,
challenges and future development in Spain. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,64, 1–18. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 21 of 29
6. Seyr, H.; Muskulus, M. Safety Indicators for the Marine Operations in the Installation and Operating Phase
of an Offshore Wind Farm. Energy Procedia 2016 ,94, 72–81. [CrossRef]
7. Summary of Wind Turbine Accident. Available online: http://www.caithnesswindfarms.co.uk/page4.htm
(accessed on 31 March 2018).
8. Luengo, M.M.; Kolios, A. Failure Mode Identiﬁcation and End of Life Scenarios of Offshore Wind Turbines:
A Review. Energies 2015 ,8, 8339–8354. [CrossRef]
9. Li, Z.; Chen, S.; Ma, H.; Feng, T. Design defect of wind turbine operating in typhoon activity zone.
Eng. Fail. Anal. 2013 ,27, 165–172. [CrossRef]
10. Chen, X.; Li, C.; Xu, J. Failure investigation on a coastal wind farm damaged by super typhoon: A forensic
engineering study. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2015 ,147, 132–142. [CrossRef]
11. Ishihara, T.; Yamaguchi, A.; Takahara, K.; Mekaru, T.; Matsuura, S. An Analysis of damaged wind turbines
by typhoon Maemi in 2003. In Proceedings of the Sixth Asia-Paciﬁc Conference (APCWE VI), Seoul, Korea,
12–14 September 2005.
12. Chen, X.; Xu, J.Z. Structural failure analysis of wind turbines impacted by super typhoon Usagi.
Eng. Fail. Anal. 2016 ,60, 391–404. [CrossRef]
13. Chou, J.S.; Ou, Y.C.; Lin, K.Y.; Wang, Z.J. Structural failure simulation of onshore wind turbines impacted by
strong winds. Eng. Struct. 2018 ,162, 257–269. [CrossRef]
14. Douglas, D.; Patrick, M. Reliability analysis for wind turbines. In Proceedings of the ASME 2009 3rd
International Conference of Energy Sustainability ES2009, San Francisco, CA, USA, 19–23 July 2009.
15. Lin, Y.; Tu, L.; Liu, H.; Li, W. Fault analysis of wind turbines in China. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,55,
482–490. [CrossRef]
16. Chou, J.S.; Tu, W.T. Failure analysis and risk management of a collapsed large wind turbine tower.
Eng. Fail. Anal. 2011 ,18, 295–313. [CrossRef]
17. Chou, J.S.; Chiu, C.K.; Huang, I.K.; Chi, K.N. Failure analysis of wind turbine blade under critical wind
loads. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2013 ,27, 99–118. [CrossRef]
18. Tchakoua, P .; Wamkeue, R.; Ouhrouche, M.; Slaoui-Hasnaoui, F.; Tameghe, T.A.; Ekemb, G. Wind Turbine
Condition Monitoring: State-of-the-Art Review, New Trends, and Future Challenges. Energies 2014 ,7,
2595–2630. [CrossRef]
19. Yang, W.; Tavner, P .J.; Crabtree, C.J.; Feng, Y.; Qiu, Y. Wind turbine condition monitoring: Technical and
commercial challenges. Wind Energy 2014 ,17, 673–693. [CrossRef]
20. Sinha, Y.; Steel, J.A. A progressive study into offshore wind farm maintenance optimisation using risk based
failure analysis. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2015 ,42, 735–742. [CrossRef]
21. Schubel, P .J.; Crossley, R.J.; Boateng, E.K.G.; Hutchinson, J.R. Review of structural health and cure monitoring
techniques for large wind turbine blades. Renew. Energy 2013 ,51, 113–123. [CrossRef]
22. Yang, B.; Sun, D. Testing inspecting and monitoring technologies for wind turbine blades: A survey.
Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2013 ,22, 515–526. [CrossRef]
23. Wymore, M.L.; Dam, J.E.V .; Ceylan, H.; Qiao, D. A survey of health monitoring systems for wind turbines.
Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2015 ,52, 976–990. [CrossRef]
24. Martinez-Luengo, M.; Kolios, A.; Wang, L. Structural health monitoring of offshore wind turbines: A review
through the Statistical Pattern Recognition Paradigm. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,64, 91–105. [CrossRef]
25. Salameh, J.P .; Cauet, S.; Etien, E.; Sakout, A.; Rambault, L. Gearbox condition monitoring in wind turbines:
A review. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2018 ,111, 251–264. [CrossRef]
26. Chen, B.; Zappal á, D.; Crabtree, C.J.; Tavner, P .J. Survey of Commercially Available SCADA Data Analysis
Tools for Wind Turbine Health Monitoring ; Durham University School of Engineering & Computing Sciences:
Durham, UK, 2014.
27. Garlick, W.G.; Dixon, R.; Watson, S.J. A Model-Based Approach to Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring
Using SCADA Data. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Systems Engineering,
Coventry University, Coventry, UK, 8–10 September 2009.
28. Schlechtingen, M.; Santos, I.F.; Achiche, S. Wind turbine condition monitoring based on SCADA data using
normal behavior models. Part 1: System description. Appl. Soft Comput. 2013 ,13, 259–270. [CrossRef]
29. Schlechtingen, M.; Santos, I.F. Wind turbine condition monitoring based on SCADA data using normal
behavior models. Part 2: Application examples. Appl. Soft Comput. 2014 ,14, 447–460. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 22 of 29
30. Sun, P .; Li, J.; Wang, C.; Lei, X. A generalized model for wind turbine anomaly identiﬁcation based on
SCADA data. Appl. Energy 2016 ,168, 550–567. [CrossRef]
31. Yang, W.; Court, R.; Jiang, J. Wind turbine condition monitoring by the approach of SCADA data analysis.
Renew. Energy 2013 ,53, 365–376. [CrossRef]
32. Song, Z.; Zhang, Z.; Jiang, Y.; Zhu, J. Wind Turbine Health State Monitoring Based on a Bayesian Data-driven
Approach. Renew. Energy 2018 ,125, 172–181. [CrossRef]
33. Crabtree, C.J.; Zappal á, D.; Tavner, P .J. Survey of Commercially Available Condition Monitoring Systems for Wind
Turbines ; Durham University School of Engineering & Computing Sciences: Durham, UK, 2014.
34. Nie, M.; Wang, L. Review of Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis Technologies for Wind Turbine
Gearbox. Procedia Cirp 2013 ,11, 287–290. [CrossRef]
35. Romero, A.; Soua, S.; Gan, T.H.; Wang, B. Condition Monitoring of a wind turbine drive train based on its
power dependant vibrations. Renew. Energy 2018 ,123, 817–827. [CrossRef]
36. Feng, Y.; Qiu, Y.; Crabtree, C.J.; Long, H.; Tavner, P .J. Monitoring wind turbine gearboxes. Wind Energy 2013 ,
16, 728–740. [CrossRef]
37. Song, Y.; Wang, B.; Li, B.; Zeng, Y.; Wang, L. Remotely monitoring offshore wind turbines via ZigBee
networks embedded with an advanced routing strategy. J. Renew. Sustain. Energy 2013 ,5, 1–14. [CrossRef]
38. Lu, B.; Li, Y.; Wu, X.; Yang, Z. A review of recent advances in wind turbine condition monitoring and fault
diagnosis. In Proceedings of the Power Electronics and Machines in Wind Applications, Lincoln, NE, USA,
24–26 June 2009; pp. 1–7. [CrossRef]
39. Sutherland, H.; Beattie, A.; Hansche, B.; Musial, W.; Allread, J.; Johnson, J.; Summers, M. The Application
of Nondestructive Techniques to the Testing of a Wind Turbine Blade ; Nasa Sti/recon Technical Report N;
Sandia National Laboratories: Livermore, CA, USA, 1994.
40. Kirikera, G.R.; Shinde, V .; Schulz, M.J.; Sundaresan, M.J.; Hughes, S.; Dam, J.V .; Nkrumah, F.; Grandhi, G.;
Ghoshal, A. Monitoring Multi-Site Damage Growth During Quasi-Static Testing of a Wind Turbine Blade
using a Structural Neural System. Struct. Health Monit. 2008 ,7, 157–173. [CrossRef]
41. Song, G.; Li, H.; Gajic, B.; Zhou, W.; Chen, P .; Gu, H. Wind turbine blade health monitoring with
piezoceramic-based wireless sensor network. Int. J. Smart Nano Mater. 2013 ,4, 150–166. [CrossRef]
42. Blanch, M.J.; Dutton, A.G. Acoustic Emission Monitoring of Field Tests of an Operating Wind Turbine.
Key Eng. Mater. 2003 ,245–246 , 475–482. [CrossRef]
43. Papasalouros, D.; Tsopelas, N.; Anastasopoulos, A.; Kourousis, D.; Lekou, D.J.; Mouzakis, F.
Acoustic emission monitoring of composite blade of NM48/750 NEG-MICON wind turbine. Acoust. Emiss.
2013 ,31, 36–49.
44. Rumsey, M.A.; Paquette, J.A. Structural health monitoring of wind turbine blades. Proc. SPIE 2008 ,6933 ,
69330E.
45. Berg, J.C.; Resor, B.R.; Paquette, J.A.; White, J.R. SMART Wsind Turbine Rotor: Design and Field Test ;
Technical Report SAND2014-0681; Sandia National Laboratories: Albuquerque, NM, USA, 2014.
46. Hyers, R.W.; Mcgowan, J.G.; Sullivan, K.L.; Manwell, J.F.; Syrett, B.C. Condition monitoring and prognosis
of utility scale wind turbines. Adv. Energy Mater. 2006 ,1, 187–203. [CrossRef]
47. Schroeder, K.; Ecke, W.; Apitz, J.; Lembke, E.; Lenschow, G. A Fibre Bragg grating sensor system monitors
operational load in a wind turbine rotor blade. Meas. Sci. Technol. 2006 ,17, 1167–1172. [CrossRef]
48. Friedmann, H.; Ebert, C.; Kraemer, P .; Frankenstein, B. SHM of Floating Offshore Wind Turbines—Challenges
and First Solutions. J. Educ. Res. 2012 ,54, 105–110.
49. Ozbek, M.; Meng, F.; Rixen, D.J. Challenges in testing and monitoring the in-operation vibration
characteristics of wind turbines. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2013 ,41, 649–666. [CrossRef]
50. Hwang, S.; An, Y.K.; Sohn, H. Continuous Line Laser Thermography for Damage Imaging of Rotating Wind
Turbine Blades. Procedia Eng. 2016 ,188, 225–232. [CrossRef]
51. Amenabar, I.; Mendikute, A.; L ópez-Arraiza, A.; Lizaranzu, A.; Aurrekoetxea, J. Comparison and
analysis of non-destructive testing techniques suitable for delamination inspection in wind turbine blades.
Compos. Part B-Eng. 2011 ,42, 1298–1305. [CrossRef]
52. Guo, P .; Inﬁeld, D. Wind Turbine Tower Vibration Modeling and Monitoring by the Nonlinear State
Estimation Technique (NSET). Energies 2012 ,5, 5279–5293. [CrossRef]
53. Zhang, Z. Analysis of wind turbine vibrations based on SCADA data. J. Sol. Energy 2010 ,132, 1–12.
[CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 23 of 29
54. Swartz, R.A.; Lynch, J.P .; Zerbst, S.; Sweetman, B.; Rolfes, R. Structural monitoring of wind turbines using
wireless sensor networks. Smart Struct. Syst. 2010 ,6, 183–196. [CrossRef]
55. Kilic, G.; Unluturk, M.S. Testing of wind turbine towers using wireless sensor network and accelerometer.
Renew. Energy 2015 ,75, 318–325. [CrossRef]
56. Smarsly, K.; Hartmann, D.; Law, K.H. Structural Health Monitoring of Wind Turbines Observed by
Autonomous Software Components-2nd Level Monitoring. In Proceedings of the International Conference
on Computing in Civil and Building Engineering, Moscow, Russian, 27–29 June 2012.
57. Smarsly, K.; Hartmann, D.; Law, K.H. A Computational Framework for Life-Cycle Management of Wind
Turbines incorporating Structural Health Monitoring. Struct. Health Monit. 2013 ,12, 359–376. [CrossRef]
58. Smarsly, K.; Hartmann, D.; Law, K.H. An integrated monitoring system for life-cycle management of wind
turbines. Smart Struct. Syst. 2013 ,12, 209–233. [CrossRef]
59. Rolfes, R.; Zerbst, S.; Haake, G.; Reetz, J.; Lynch, J.P . Integral SHM-System for Offshore Wind Turbines Using
Smart Wireless Sensors. In Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Structural Health Monitoring,
Stanford, CA, USA, 11–13 September 2007.
60. Fritzen, C.P .; Kraemer, P .; Klinkov, M. An Integrated SHM Approach for Offshore Wind Energy Plants.
In Proceedings of the IMAC-XXVIII, Jacksonville, FL, USA, 1–4 February 2010; Volume 3, pp. 727–740.
[CrossRef]
61. Faulkner, P .; Cutter, P .; Owens, A. Structural Health Monitoring Systems in Difﬁcult Environments-Offshore
Wind Turbines. In Proceedings of the 6th European Workshop on Structural Health Monitoring,
Dresden, Germany, 3–6 July 2012; pp. 1–7.
62. Devriendt, C.; Magalh ães, F.; Kafafy, M.E.; Sitter, G.D.; Cunha, A.; Guillaume, P . Long-Term Dynamic
Monitoring of an Offshore Wind Turbine. Top. Dyn. Civil Struct. 2013 ,4, 253–267. [CrossRef]
63. Wang, X.; Zeng, X.; Li, J.; Yang, X.; Wang, H. A review on recent advancements of substructures for offshore
wind turbines. Energy Convers. Manag. 2018 ,158, 103–119. [CrossRef]
64. Ibsen, L.B. Design of a new foundation for Offshore Wind Turbines. In Proceedings of the 22nd International
Modal Analysis Conference (IMAC), Detroit, MI, USA, 20–22 September 2004.
65. Mieloszyk, M.; Ostachowicz, W. An application of Structural Health Monitoring system based on FBG
sensors to offshore wind turbine support structure model. Mar. Struct. 2017 ,51, 65–86. [CrossRef]
66. Weijtjens, W.; Verbelen, T.; Sitter, G.D.; Devriendt, C. Data Normalization for Foundation SHM of an Offshore
Wind Turbine: A Real-Life Case Study. In Proceedings of the 7th European Workshop on Structural Health
Monitoring, La Cit é, Nantes, France, 8–11 July 2014.
67. Weijtjens, W.; Verbelen, T.; Sitter, G.D.; Devriendt, C. Foundation structural health monitoring of an offshore
wind turbine—A full-scale case study. Struct. Health Monit. 2016 ,15, 389–402. [CrossRef]
68. Sitter, G.D.; Weijtjens, W.; Ingelgem, Y.V .; Wilde, D.D.; Verlinden, K.; Millis, S.; Devriendt, C.
Foundation monitoring systems: Analysis of 2 years of monitoring at the North Sea. In Proceedings
of the Europe’s Premier Wind Energy Event EWEA, Barcelona, Spain, 10–13 March 2014.
69. Azevedo, H.D.M.D.; Ara újo, A.M.; Bouchonneau, N. A review of wind turbine bearing condition monitoring:
State of the art and challenges. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,56, 368–379. [CrossRef]
70. Ozbek, M.; Rixen, D.J.; Verbruggen, T.W. Remote monitoring of wind turbine dynamics by laser
interferometry: Phase1. In Proceedings of the IMAC-XXVII, Orlando, FL, USA, 9–12 February 2009.
71. Ozbek, M.; Rixen, D.J.; Erne, O.; Sanow, G. Feasibility of monitoring large wind turbines using
photogrammetry. Energy 2010 ,35, 4802–4811. [CrossRef]
72. Linden, D.V .D.; Sitter, G.D.; Verbelen, T.; Devriendt, C.; Helsen, J. Towards an evolvable data management
system for wind turbines. Comput. Stand. Interfaces 2017 ,51, 87–94. [CrossRef]
73. Colone, L.; Reder, M.; Tautz-Weinert, J.; Melero, J.J.; Natarajan, A.; Watson, S.J. Optimisation of
Data Acquisition in Wind Turbines with Data-Driven Conversion Functions for Sensor Measurements.
Energy Procedia 2017 ,137, 571–578. [CrossRef]
74. Antoniadou, I.; Dervilis, N.; Papatheou, E.; Maguire, A.E.; Worden, K. Aspects of structural health and
condition monitoring of offshore wind turbines. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 2015 ,373, 1–14. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
75. Jordaens, P .J.; Helsen, J.; Sitter, G.D. Big data intelligence platform for wind turbines to support RD&I
projects. In Proceedings of the EWEA, Paris, France, 17–20 November 2015.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 24 of 29
76. Green, J.; Bowen, A.; Fingersh, L.J.; Wan, Y. Electrical Collection and Transmission Systems for Offshore Wind
Power. In Proceedings of the Offshore Technology Conference, Houston, TX, USA, 30 April–3 May 2007.
77. Iliopoulos, A.; Shirzadeh, R.; Weijtjens, W.; Guillaume, P .; Hemelrijck, D.V .; Devriendt, C. A modal
decomposition and expansion approach for prediction of dynamic responses on a monopile offshore wind
turbine using a limited number of vibration sensors. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2016 ,68–69 , 84–104.
[CrossRef]
78. Shaikh, F.K.; Zeadally, S. Energy harvesting in wireless sensor networks: A comprehensive review.
Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,55, 1041–1054. [CrossRef]
79. Xu, N.; Rangwala, S.; Chintalapudi, K.K.; Ganesan, D.; Broad, A.; Govindan, R.; Estrin, D. A wireless
sensor network for structural monitoring. In Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Embedded
Networked Sensor Systems, Baltimore, MD, USA, 3–5 November 2004.
80. Arampatzis, T.; Lygeros, J.; Manesis, S. A Survey of Applications of Wireless Sensors and Wireless
Sensor Networks. In Proceedings of the 13th Mediterranean Conference on Control and Automation,
Limassol, Cyprus, 27–29 June 2005. [CrossRef]
81. Lewis, F.L. Wireless Sensor Networks. Smart Environments: Technologies, Protocols, and Applications ; John Wiley:
New York, NY, USA, 2004. [CrossRef]
82. Yu, F.R.; Zhang, P .; Xiao, W.; Choudhury, P . Communication systems for grid integration of renewable energy
resources. Netw. IEEE 2011 ,25, 22–29. [CrossRef]
83. Bang, H.J.; Kim, H.I.; Lee, K.S. Measurement of strain and bending deﬂection of a wind turbine tower using
arrayed FBG sensors. Int. J. Precis. Eng. Manuf. 2012 ,13, 2121–2126. [CrossRef]
84. Ozbek, M.; Rixen, D.J. Operational modal analysis of a 2.5 MW wind turbine using optical measurement
techniques and strain gauges. Wind Energy 2013 ,16, 367–381. [CrossRef]
85. Tcherniak, D.; Chauhan, S.; Hansen, M.H. Applicability Limits of Operational Modal Analysis to Operational
Wind Turbines. In Proceedings of the IMAC-XXVII, Orlando, FL, USA, 9–12 February 2009. [CrossRef]
86. Brincker, R.; Andersen, P .; Møller, N. An indicator for separation of structural and harmonic modes
in output-only modal testing. In Proceedings of the International Modal Analysis Conference (IMAC
XVIII), San Antonio, TX, USA, 7–10 February 2000; Society for Engineering Mechanics: Bethel, CT, USA;
pp. 1649–1654.
87. Jacobsen, N.J.; Andersen, P .; Brincker, R. Eliminating the inﬂuence of harmonic components in operational
modal Analysis. In Proceedings of the IMAC XXV Conference, Orlando, FL, USA, 19–22 February 2007.
88. Gade, S.; Schlombs, R.; Fenselau, C. Operational modal analysis on a wind turbine gearbox. In Proceedings of
the IOMAC09—3rd International Operational Modal Analysis Conference, Portonovo, Italy, 4–6 May 2009.
89. Jacobsen, N.J. Separating Structural Modes and Harmonic Components in Operational Modal Analysis.
In Proceedings of the IMAC XXIV Conference, St. Louis, MI, USA, 30 January–2 February 2006.
90. Modak, S.V .; Rawal, C.; Kundra, T.K. Harmonic elimination algorithm for operational modal analysis using
random decrement technique. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2010 ,24, 922–944. [CrossRef]
91. Modak, S.V . Separation of structural modes and harmonic frequencies in Operational Modal Analysis using
random decrement. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2013 ,41, 366–379. [CrossRef]
92. Pintelon, R.; Peeters, B.; Guillaume, P . Continuous-time operational modal analysis in the presence of
harmonic disturbances. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2008 ,22, 1017–1035. [CrossRef]
93. Pintelon, R.; Peeters, B.; Guillaume, P . Continuous-time operational modal analysis in the presence of
harmonic disturbances—The multivariate case. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2010 ,24, 90–105. [CrossRef]
94. Devriendt, C.; Sitter, G.D.; Vanlanduit, S.; Guillaume, P . Operational modal analysis in the presence of
harmonic excitations by the use of transmissibility measurements. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2009 ,23,
621–635. [CrossRef]
95. Weijtjens, W.; Lataire, J.; Devriendt, C.; Guillaume, P . Dealing with periodical loads and harmonics in
operational modal analysis using time-varying transmissibility functions. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2014 ,
49, 154–164. [CrossRef]
96. Agneni, A.; Coppotelli, G.; Grappasonni, C. A method for the harmonic removal in operational modal
analysis of rotating blades. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2012 ,27, 604–618. [CrossRef]
97. Dion, J.L.; Tawﬁq, I.; Chevallier, G. Harmonic component detection: Optimized Spectral Kurtosis for
operational modal analysis. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2012 ,26, 24–33. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 25 of 29
98. Mohanty, P .; Rixen, D.J. A modiﬁed Ibrahim time domain algorithm for operational modal analysis including
harmonic excitation. J. Sound Vib. 2004 ,275, 375–390. [CrossRef]
99. Mohanty, P .; Rixen, D.J. Modiﬁed SSTD method to account for harmonic excitations during operational
modal analysis. Mech. Mach. Theory 2004 ,39, 1247–1255. [CrossRef]
100. Mohanty, P .; Rixen, D.J. Modiﬁed ERA method for operational modal analysis in the presence of harmonic
excitations. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2006 ,20, 114–130. [CrossRef]
101. James, G.H.; Carne, T.G.; Lauffer, J.P . The Natural Excitation T echnique (NExT) for Modal Parameter Extraction from
Operating Wind Turbines ; Sandia Report; United States Department of Energy: Washington, DC, USA, 1993 .
[CrossRef]
102. Carne, T.G.; James, G.H. The inception of OMA in the development of modal testing technology for wind
turbines. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2010 ,24, 1213–1226. [CrossRef]
103. Hansen, M.H.; Thomsen, K.; Fuglsang, P .; Knudsen, T. Two methods for estimating aeroelastic damping of
operational wind turbine modes from experiments. Wind Energy 2006 ,9, 179–191. [CrossRef]
104. Allen, M.S.; Sracic, M.W.; Chauhan, S.; Hansen, M.H. Output-Only Modal Analysis of Linear Time Periodic
Systems with Application to Wind Turbine Simulation Data. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2011 ,25, 1174–1191.
[CrossRef]
105. Chauhan, S.; Hansen, M.H.; Tcherniak, D. Application of Operational Modal Analysis and Blind Source
Separation Independent Component Analysis Techniques to Wind Turbines. In Proceedings of the
IMAC-XXVII, Orlando, FL, USA, 9–12 February 2009.
106. Tcherniak, D.; Chauhan, S.; Rossetti, M.; Font, I.; Basurko, J.; Salgado, O. Output-only Modal Analysis on
Operating Wind Turbines Application to Simulated Data. In Proceedings of the European Wind Energy
Conference, Warsaw, Poland, 20–23 April 2010.
107. Dong, X.; Lian, J.; Yang, M.; Wang, H. Operational modal identiﬁcation of offshore wind turbine structure
based on modiﬁed stochastic subspace identiﬁcation method considering harmonic interference. J. Renew.
Sustain. Energy 2014 ,6, 1649–1654. [CrossRef]
108. Dai, K.; Wang, Y.; Huang, Y.; Zhu, W.; Xu, Y. Development of a modiﬁed stochastic subspace identiﬁcation
method for rapid structural assessment of in-service utility-scale wind turbine towers. Wind Energy 2017 ,20,
1687–1710. [CrossRef]
109. Damgaard, M.; Ibsen, L.B.; Andersen, L.V .; Andersen, J.K.F. Cross-wind modal properties of offshore wind
turbines identiﬁed by full scale testing. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2013 ,116, 94–108. [CrossRef]
110. Koukoura, C.; Natarajan, A.; Vesth, A. Identiﬁcation of support structure damping of a full scale offshore
wind turbine in normal operation. Renew. Energy 2015 ,81, 882–895. [CrossRef]
111. Bajri´ c, A.; Høgsberg, J.; Rüdinger, F. Evaluation of damping estimates by automated Operational Modal
Analysis for offshore wind turbine tower vibrations. Renew. Energy 2018 ,116, 153–163. [CrossRef]
112. Hu, W.H.; Thöns, S.; Rohrmann, R.G.; Said, S.; Rücker, W. Vibration-based structural health monitoring of a
wind turbine system. Part I: Resonance phenomenon. Eng. Struct. 2015 ,89, 260–272. [CrossRef]
113. Hu, W.H.; Thöns, S.; Rohrmann, R.G.; Said, S.; Rücker, W. Vibration-based structural health monitoring of a
wind turbine system Part II: Environmental/operational effects on dynamic properties. Eng. Struct. 2015 ,89,
273–290. [CrossRef]
114. Häckell, M.W.; Rolfes, R. Monitoring a 5 MW offshore wind energy converter—Condition parameters and
triangulation based extraction of modal parameters. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2013 ,40, 322–343. [CrossRef]
115. Devriendt, C.; Magalh ães, F.; Weijtjens, W.; Sitter, G.D.; Cunha, A.; Guillaume, P . Structural health monitoring
of offshore wind turbines using automated operational modal analysis. Struct. Health Monit. 2014 ,13,
644–659. [CrossRef]
116. Helsen, J. Experimental Characterization of a Grid-Loss Event on a 2.5-MW Dynamometer Using Advanced
Operational Modal Analysis. In Proceedings of the Conference Wind Power Drives, Aachen, Germany,
3–4 March 2015; pp. 173–178.
117. El-Kafafy, M.; Devriendt, C.; Guillaume, P .; Helsen, J. Automatic Tracking of the Modal Parameters of an
Offshore Wind Turbine Drivetrain System. Energies 2017 ,10, 574. [CrossRef]
118. Devriendt, C.; Jordaens, P .J.; Sitter, G.D.; Guillaume, P . Damping estimation of an offshore wind turbine on a
monopile foundation. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2013 ,7, 401–412. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 26 of 29
119. Elkafafy, M.; Devriendt, C.; Weijtjens, W.; Sitter, G.D.; Guillaume, P . Evaluating Different Automated
Operational Modal Analysis Techniques for the Continuous Monitoring of Offshore Wind Turbines.
In Proceedings of the International Modal Analysis Conference IMAC XXXII, Orlando, Fl, USA,
3–6 February 2014; pp. 2002–2008. [CrossRef]
120. Weijtjens, W.; Sitter, G.D.; Devriendt, C.; Guillaume, P . Automated operational modal analysis on an offshore
wind turbine: Challenges, results and opportunities. In Proceedings of the International Operational Modal
Analysis Conference (Iomac), Gijon, Spain, 12–14 May 2015.
121. Park, G.; Inman, D.J. Structural health monitoring using piezoelectric impedance measurements. Phil. Trans.
R. Soc. A 2007 ,365, 373–392. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
122. Ghoshal, A.; Sundaresan, M.J.; Schulz, M.J.; Pai, P .F. Structural health monitoring techniques for wind turbine
blades. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2000 ,85, 309–324. [CrossRef]
123. Li, D.; Ho, S.C.M.; Song, G.; Ren, L.; Li, H. A review of damage detection methods for wind turbine blades.
Smart Mater. Struct. 2015 ,24, 1–24. [CrossRef]
124. Ciang, C.C.; Lee, J.R.; Bang, H.J. Topical Review: Structural health monitoring for a wind turbine system:
A review of damage detection methods. Meas. Sci. Technol. 2008 ,19, 310–314. [CrossRef]
125. Adams, D.; White, J.; Rumsey, M.; Farrar, C. Structural health monitoring of wind turbines: Method and
application to a HAWT. Wind Energy 2011 ,14, 603–623. [CrossRef]
126. Rezaei, M.M.; Behzad, M.; Moradi, H.; Haddadpour, H. Modal-based damage identiﬁcation for the nonlinear
model of modern wind turbine blade. Renew. Energy 2016 ,94, 391–409. [CrossRef]
127. Doli´ nski, L.; Krawczuk, M. Damage detection in turbine wind blades by vibration based methods. J. Phys.
Conf. Ser. 2009 ,181, 012086. [CrossRef]
128. Wang, Y.; Liang, M.; Xiang, J. Damage detection method for wind turbine blades based on dynamics analysis
and mode shape difference curvature information. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2014 ,48, 351–367. [CrossRef]
129. Benedetti, M.; Fontanari, V .; Zonta, D. Structural health monitoring of wind towers: Remote damage
detection using strain sensors. Smart Mater. Struct. 2011 ,20, 1–13. [CrossRef]
130. Sierra-P érez, J.; Torres-Arredondo, M.A.; Güemes, A. Damage and nonlinearities detection in wind turbine
blades based on strain ﬁeld pattern recognition. FBGs, OBR and strain gauges comparison. Compos. Struct.
2016 ,135, 156–166. [CrossRef]
131. Downey, A.; Ubertini, F.; Laﬂamme, S. Algorithm for damage detection in wind turbine blades using a
hybrid dense sensor network with feature level data fusion. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2017 ,168, 288–296.
[CrossRef]
132. Ghoshal, A.; Martin, W.N.; Schulz, M.J.; Chattopadhyay, A.; Prosser, W.H.; Kim, H.S. Health Monitoring of
Composite Plates using Acoustic Wave Propagation, Continuous Sensors and Wavelet Analysis. J. Reinf.
Plast. Compos. 2007 ,26, 95–112. [CrossRef]
133. Joosse, P .A.; Blanch, M.J.; Dutton, A.G.; Kouroussis, D.A.; Philippidis, T.P .; Vionis, P .S. Acoustic emission
monitoring of small wind turbine blades. J. Sol. Energy 2002 ,124, 401–411. [CrossRef]
134. Jørgensen, E.R.; Borum, K.K.; Mcgugan, M.; Thomsen, C.L.; Jensen, F.M.; Sørensen, C.P .D.B.F. Full Scale
Testing of Wind Turbine Blade to Failure—Flapwise Loading ; Risø National Laboratory: Roskilde, Denmark;
Technical University of Denmark: Lyngby, Denmark, 2004.
135. Kirikera, G.R.; Shinde, V .; Schulz, M.J.; Ghoshal, A.; Sundaresan, M.; Allemang, R. Damage localisation
in composite and metallic structures using a structural neural system and simulated acoustic emissions.
Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2007 ,21, 280–297. [CrossRef]
136. Dutton, A.G. Thermoelastic stress measurement and acoustic emission monitoring in wind turbine blade testing.
In Proceedings of the European Wind Energy Conference EWEC, London, UK, 22–25 November 2004.
137. Pitchford, C.; Grisso, B.L.; Inman, D.J. Impedance-based structural health monitoring of wind turbine blades.
Proc. SPIE 2007 ,6532 , 1–11. [CrossRef]
138. Farinholt, K.M.; Taylor, S.G.; Park, G.; Ammerman, C.M. Full-scale fatigue tests of CX-100 wind turbine
blades. Part I: Testing. Proc. SPIE 2012 ,8343 , 83430P . [CrossRef]
139. Taylor, S.G.; Jeong, H.; Jang, J.K.; Park, G.; Farinholt, K.M.; Todd, M.D.; Ammerman, C.M. Full-scale fatigue
tests of CX-100 wind turbine blades. Part II: Analysis. Proc. SPIE 2012 ,8343 , 83430Q. [CrossRef]
140. Sørensen, B.F.; Lading, L.; Mcgugan, M.; Sendrup, P .; Debel, C.P .; Kristensen, O.J.D.; Larsen, G.; Hansen, A.M.;
Rheinländer, J.; Rusborg, J.; et al. Fundamentals for Remote Structural Health Monitoring of Wind Turbine
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 27 of 29
Blades-a Preproject ; Risø National Laboratory: Roskilde, Denmark; Technical University of Denmark:
Lyngby, Denmark, 2002.
141. Juengert, A. Damage Detection in wind turbine blades using two different acoustic techniques.
In Proceedings of the 7th ﬁb PhD Symposium in Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany, 11–13 September 2008.
142. Lee, J.R.; Shin, H.J.; Chia, C.C.; Dhital, D.; Yoon, D.J.; Huh, Y.H. Long distance laser ultrasonic propagation
imaging system for damage visualization. Opt. Lasers Eng. 2011 ,49, 1361–1371. [CrossRef]
143. Park, B.; Sohn, H.; Yeum, C.M.; Truong, T.C. Laser ultrasonic imaging and damage detection for a rotating
structure. Struct. Health Monit. 2013 ,12, 494–506. [CrossRef]
144. Haj-Ali, R.; Wei, B.S.; Johnson, S.; El-Hajjar, R. Thermoelastic and infrared-thermography methods for surface
strains in cracked orthotropic composite materials. Eng. Fract. Mech. 2008 ,75, 58–75. [CrossRef]
145. Manohar, A.; Tippmann, J.; Scalea, F.L.D. Localization of defects in wind turbine blades and defect depth
estimation using infrared thermography. BMC Bioinform. 2012 ,8345 , 83451O. [CrossRef]
146. Zhou, H.F.; Dou, H.Y.; Qin, L.Z.; Chen, Y.; Ni, Y.Q.; Ko, J.M. A review of full-scale structural testing of wind
turbine blades. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2014 ,33, 177–187. [CrossRef]
147. Lundstrom, T.; Baqersad, J.; Niezrecki, C.; Avitabile, P . Using High-Speed Stereophotogrammetry Techniques
to Extract Shape Information from Wind Turbine/Rotor Operating Data. Top. Modal Anal. II 2012 ,6, 269–275.
[CrossRef]
148. Sun, X.; Yuan, Y.; Zhu, Z.; Zhang, X.; Yu, Q. Videometric research on deformation measurement of large-scale
wind turbine blades. Theor. Appl. Mech. Lett. 2011 ,011005 , 1–3. [CrossRef]
149. Yang, J.; Peng, C.; Xiao, J.; Zeng, J.; Xing, S.; Jin, J.; Deng, H. Structural investigation of composite wind
turbine blade considering structural collapse in full-scale static tests. Compos. Struct. 2013 ,97, 15–29.
[CrossRef]
150. Carr, J.; Baqersad, J.; Niezrecki, C.; Avitabile, P .; Slattery, M. Dynamic Stress–Strain on Turbine Blade Using
Digital Image Correlation Techniques Part 1: Static Load and Calibration. Top. Exp. Dyn. Substruct. Wind
Turb. Dyn. 2012 ,2, 215–220. [CrossRef]
151. Carr, J.; Baqersad, J.; Niezrecki, C.; Avitabile, P .; Slattery, M. Dynamic Stress–Strain on Turbine Blades Using
Digital Image Correlation Techniques Part 2: Dynamic Measurements. Top. Exp. Dyn. Substruct. Wind Turb.
Dyn. 2012 ,2, 221–226. [CrossRef]
152. Leblanc, B.; Niezrecki, C.; Avitabile, P .; Chen, J.; Sherwood, J. Full-ﬁeld inspection of a wind turbine blade
using three-dimensional digital image correlation. Proc. SPIE 2011 ,7979 , 79790L. [CrossRef]
153. Siringoringo, D.M.; Fujino, Y. Experimental study of laser Doppler vibrometer and ambient vibration for
vibration-based damage detection. Eng. Struct. 2006 ,28, 1803–1815. [CrossRef]
154. Raišutis, R.; Jasi ¯unien ˙e, E.; Šliteris, R.; Vladišauskas, A. The review of non-destructive testing techniques
suitable for inspection of the wind turbine blades. Ultragarsas (Ultrasound) 2008 ,63, 26–30.
155. Dervilis, N.; Choi, M.; Taylor, S.G.; Barthorpe, R.J.; Park, G.; Farrar, C.R.; Worden, K. On damage diagnosis
for a wind turbine blade using pattern recognition. J. Sound Vib. 2014 ,333, 1833–1850. [CrossRef]
156. Alves, M.M.; Pirmez, L.; Rossetto, S.; Delicato, F.C.; Farias, C.M.D.; Pires, P .F.; Santos, I.L.D.; Zomaya, A.Y.
Damage prediction for wind turbines using wireless sensor and actuator networks. J. Netw. Comput. Appl.
2016 ,80, 123–140. [CrossRef]
157. Liu, X.; Bo, L.; Luo, H. Dynamical measurement system for wind turbine fatigue load. Renew. Energy 2016 ,
86, 909–921. [CrossRef]
158. Kim, S.H.; Shin, H.K.; Joo, Y.C.; Kim, K.H. A study of the wake effects on the wind characteristics and fatigue
loads for the turbines in a wind farm. Renew. Energy 2015 ,74, 536–543. [CrossRef]
159. Repetto, M.P .; Torrielli, A. Long term simulation of wind-induced fatigue loadings. Eng. Struct. 2017 ,132,
551–561. [CrossRef]
160. Marino, E.; Giusti, A.; Manuel, L. Offshore wind turbine fatigue loads: The inﬂuence of alternative wave
modeling for different turbulent and mean winds. Renew. Energy 2017 ,102, 157–169. [CrossRef]
161. Kong, C.; Bang, J.; Sugiyama, Y. Structural investigation of composite wind turbine blade considering various
load cases and fatigue life. Energy 2014 ,30, 2101–2114. [CrossRef]
162. Marín, J.C.; Barroso, A.; Par ís, F.; Canas, J. Study of fatigue damage in wind turbine blades. Eng. Fail. Anal.
2009 ,16, 656–668. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 28 of 29
163. Kumar, M.S.; Krishnan, A.S.; Vijayanandh, R. Vibrational Fatigue Analysis of NACA 63215 Small Horizontal
Axis Wind Turbine blade. Mater. Today 2018 ,5, 6665–6674. [CrossRef]
164. Zhang, M.; Tan, B.; Xu, J. Smart fatigue load control on the large-scale wind turbine blades using different
sensing signals. Renew. Energy 2016 ,87, 111–119. [CrossRef]
165. Lee, H.G.; Kang, M.G.; Park, J. Fatigue failure of a composite wind turbine blade at its root end. Compos. Struct.
2015 ,133, 878–885. [CrossRef]
166. Eder, M.A.; Belloni, F.; Tesauro, A.; Hanis, T. A multi-frequency fatigue testing method for wind turbine
rotor blades. J. Sound Vib. 2016 ,388, 123–140. [CrossRef]
167. Jang, Y.J.; Choi, C.W.; Lee, J.H.; Kang, K.W. Development of fatigue life prediction method and effect of
10-minute mean wind speed distribution on fatigue life of small wind turbine composite blade. Renew. Energy
2014 ,79, 187–198. [CrossRef]
168. Caous, D.; Bois, C.; Wahl, J.C.; Palin-luc, T.; Valette, J. Toward composite wind turbine blade fatigue life
assessment using ply scale damage model. Procedia Eng. 2018 ,213, 173–182. [CrossRef]
169. Yeter, B.; Garbatov, Y.; Soares, C.G. Fatigue damage assessment of ﬁxed offshore wind turbine tripod support
structures. Eng. Struct. 2015 ,101, 518–528. [CrossRef]
170. Yeter, B.; Garbatov, Y.; Soares, C.G. Evaluation of fatigue damage model predictions for ﬁxed offshore wind
turbine support structures. Int. J. Fatigue 2016 ,87, 71–80. [CrossRef]
171. Kelma, S.; Schaumann, P . Probabilistic Fatigue Analysis of Jacket Support Structures for Offshore Wind
Turbines Exempliﬁed on Tubular Joints. Energy Procedia 2015 ,80, 151–158. [CrossRef]
172. Kvittem, M.I.; Moan, T. Time domain analysis procedures for fatigue assessment of a semi-submersible wind
turbine. Mar. Struct. 2015 ,40, 38–59. [CrossRef]
173. Chew, K.H.; Tai, K.; Ng, E.Y.K.; Muskulus, M. Analytical gradient-based optimization of offshore wind
turbine substructures under fatigue and extreme loads. Mar. Struct. 2016 ,47, 23–41. [CrossRef]
174. Schafhirt, S.; Page, A.; Eiksund, G.R.; Muskulus, M. Inﬂuence of Soil Parameters on the Fatigue Lifetime of
Offshore Wind Turbines with Monopile Support Structure. Energy Procedia 2016 ,94, 347–356. [CrossRef]
175. Benedetti, M.; Fontanari, V .; Battisti, L. Structural health monitoring of wind towers: Residual fatigue life
estimation. Smart Mater. Struct. 2013 ,22, 045017. [CrossRef]
176. Koukoura, C.; Brown, C.; Natarajan, A.; Vesth, A. Cross-wind fatigue analysis of a full scale offshore wind
turbine in the case of wind–wave misalignment. Eng. Struct. 2016 ,120, 147–157. [CrossRef]
177. Weijtjens, W.; Iliopoulos, A.; Helsen, J.; Devriendt, C. Monitoring the Consumed Fatigue Life of Wind
Turbines on Monopile Foundations. In Proceedings of the Ewea Offshore, Copenhagen, Denmark,
10–12 March 2015.
178. Weijtens, W.; Noppe, N.; Verbelen, T.; Iliopoulos, A.; Devriendt, C. Offshore wind turbine foundation
monitoring, extrapolating fatigue measurements from ﬂeet leaders to the entire wind farm. J. Phys. Conf. Ser.
2016 ,092018 , 1–10. [CrossRef]
179. Jin, X.; Ju, W.; Zhang, Z.; Guo, L.; Yang, X. System safety analysis of large wind turbines. Renew. Sustain.
Energy Rev. 2016 ,56, 1293–1307. [CrossRef]
180. Yang, W.; Jiang, J. Wind turbine condition monitoring and reliability analysis by SCADA information.
In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Mechanic Automation & Control Engineering,
Inner Mongolia, China, 15–17 July 2011; pp. 1872–1875. [CrossRef]
181. Qiu, Y.; Feng, Y.; Tavner, P .; Richardson, P .; Erdos, G.; Chen, B. Wind turbine SCADA alarm analysis for
improving reliability. Wind Energy 2012 ,15, 951–966. [CrossRef]
182. Dimitrov, N.; Bitsche, R.D.; Blasques, J.P . Spatial reliability analysis of a wind turbine blade cross section
subjected to multi-axial extreme loading. Struct. Saf. 2017 ,66, 27–37. [CrossRef]
183. Tavner, P .J.; Xiang, J.; Spinato, F. Reliability Analysis for Wind Turbines. Wind Energy 2007 ,10, 1–18.
[CrossRef]
184. Guo, H.; Watson, S.; Tavner, P .; Xiang, J. Reliability analysis for wind turbines with incomplete failure data
collected from after the date of initial installation. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2009 ,94, 1057–1063. [CrossRef]
185. Hsu, Y.; Wu, W.F.; Chang, Y.C. Reliability Analysis of Wind Turbine Towers. Procedia Eng. 2014 ,79, 218–224.
[CrossRef]
186. Kim, D.H.; Lee, S.G. Reliability analysis of offshore wind turbine support structures under extreme ocean
environmental loads. Renew. Energy 2015 ,79, 161–166. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2019 ,11, 494 29 of 29
187. Colone, L.; Natarajan, A.; Dimitrov, N. Impact of turbulence induced loads and wave kinematic models on
fatigue reliability estimates of offshore wind turbine monopiles. Ocean Eng. 2018 ,155, 295–309. [CrossRef]
188. Zhang, X.; Sun, L.; Sun, H.; Guo, Q.; Bai, X. Floating offshore wind turbine reliability analysis based on
system grading and dynamic FTA. J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 2016 ,154, 21–33. [CrossRef]
189. Gomez, H.C.; Gur, T.; Dolan, D. Structural condition assessment of offshore wind turbine monopole
foundation using vibration monitoring data. Proc. SPIE 2013 ,86940 , 86940B. [CrossRef]
190. Garcia, D.A.; Bruschi, D. A risk assessment tool for improving safety standards and emergency management
in Italian onshore wind farms. Sustain. Energy Technol. Assess. 2016 ,18, 48–58. [CrossRef]
191. Adem, A.; Çolak, A.; Da˘ gdeviren, M. An integrated model using SWOT analysis and Hesitant fuzzy linguistic
term set for evaluation occupational safety risks in life cycle of wind turbine. Saf. Sci. 2018 ,106, 184–190.
[CrossRef]
192. Dong, X.; Lian, J.; Wang, H.; Yu, T.; Zhao, Y. Structural vibration monitoring and operational modal analysis
of offshore wind turbine structure. Ocean Eng. 2018 ,150, 280–297. [CrossRef]
193. Walford, C.A. Wind Turbine Reliability Understanding and Minimizing Wind Turbine Operation and Maintenance
Costs ; Sandia Report; Sandia National Laboratory: Livermore, CA, USA, March 2006. [CrossRef]
194. Nilsson, J.; Bertling, L. Maintenance Management of Wind Power Systems Using Condition Monitoring
Systems-Life Cycle Cost Analysis for Two Case Studies. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2007 ,22, 223–229.
[CrossRef]
195. Hameed, Z.; Ahn, S.H.; Cho, Y.M. Practical aspects of a condition monitoring system for a wind turbine
with emphasis on its design, system architecture, testing and installation. Renew. Energy 2010 ,35, 879–894.
[CrossRef]
196. Márquez, F.P .G.; Tobias, A.M.; P érez, J.M.P .; Papaelias, M. Condition monitoring of wind turbines: Techniques
and methods. Renew. Energy 2012 ,46, 169–178. [CrossRef]
197. Tian, Z.; Jin, T.; Wu, B.; Ding, F. Condition based maintenance optimization for wind power generation
systems under continuous monitoring. Renew. Energy 2011 ,36, 1502–1509. [CrossRef]
198. Fischer, K.; Besnard, F.; Bertling, L. Reliability-Centered Maintenance for Wind Turbines Based on Statistical
Analysis and Practical Experience. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2012 ,27, 184–195. [CrossRef]
199. Ossai, C.I.; Boswell, B.; Davies, I.J. A Markovian approach for modelling the effects of maintenance on
downtime and failure risk of wind turbine components. Renew. Energy 2016 ,96, 775–783. [CrossRef]
200. Bangalore, P .; Patriksson, M. Analysis of SCADA data for early fault detection, with application to the
maintenance management of wind turbines. Renew. Energy 2018 ,115, 521–532. [CrossRef]
201. Leite, G.D.N.P .; Ara újo, A.M.; Rosas, P .A.C. Prognostic techniques applied to maintenance of wind turbines:
A concise and speciﬁc review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2018 ,81, 1917–1925. [CrossRef]
202. Ziegler, L.; Gonzalez, E.; Rubert, T.; Smolka, U.; Melero, J.J. Lifetime extension of onshore wind turbines:
A review covering Germany, Spain, Denmark, and the UK. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2018 ,28, 1261–1271.
[CrossRef]
203. Sun, X.; Huang, D.; Wu, G. The current state of offshore wind energy technology development. Energy 2012 ,
41, 298–312. [CrossRef]
204. Willis, D.J.; Niezrecki, C.; Kuchma, D.; Hines, E.; Arwade, S.R.; Barthelmie, R.J.; Di Paola, M.; Drane, P .J.;
Hansen, C.J.; Inalpolat, M.; et al. Wind Energy Research: State-of-the-Art and Future Research Directions.
Renew. Energy 2018 ,125, 133–154. [CrossRef]
205. Liu, W.; Tang, B.; Jiang, Y. Status and problems of wind turbine structural health monitoring techniques in
China. Renew. Energy 2010 ,35, 1414–1418. [CrossRef]
206. Kusiak, A.; Zhang, Z.; Verma, A. Prediction, operations, and condition monitoring in wind energy. Energy
2013 ,60, 1–12. [CrossRef]
207. Perveen, R.; Kishor, N.; Mohanty, S.R. Off-shore wind farm development: Present status and challenges.
Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2014 ,29, 780–792. [CrossRef]
©2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
