Citation: Peng, H.; Li, S.; Shangguan,
L.; Fan, Y.; Zhang, H. Analysis of
Wind Turbine Equipment Failure and
Intelligent Operation and Maintenance
Research. Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su15108333
Academic Editors: Mohamed A.
Mohamed and Kai Wang
Received: 23 March 2023
Revised: 15 May 2023
Accepted: 17 May 2023
Published: 20 May 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sustainability
Review
Analysis of Wind T urbine Equipment Failure and Intelligent
Operation and Maintenance Research
Han Peng *, Songyin Li, Linjian Shangguan *, Yisa Fan
 and Hai Zhang
School of Mechanical Engineering, North China University of Water Resources and Electric Power,
Zhengzhou 450045, China
*Correspondence: penghan@ncwu.edu.cn (H.P .); shangguanlinjian@ncwu.edu.cn (L.S.);
Tel.: +1-58-3831-9395 (H.P .)
Abstract: Power generation from wind farms is growing rapidly around the world. In the past decade,
wind energy has played an important role in contributing to sustainable development. However,
wind turbines are extremely susceptible to component damage under complex environments and
over long-term operational cycles, which directly affects their maintenance, reliability, and operating
costs. It is crucial to realize efﬁcient early warning of wind turbine failure to avoid equipment
breakdown, to prolong the service life of wind turbines, and to maximize the revenue and efﬁciency
of wind power projects. For this purpose, wind turbines are used as the research object. Firstly, this
paper outlines the main components and failure mechanisms of wind turbines and analyzes the
causes of equipment failure. Secondly, a brief analysis of the cost of wind power projects based on
equipment failure is presented. Thirdly, the current key technologies for intelligent operation and
maintenance (O&M) in the wind power industry are discussed, and the key research on decision
support systems, fault diagnosis models, and life-cycle costs is presented. Finally, current challenges
and future development directions are summarized.
Keywords: wind energy industry; equipment failure; operation and maintenance cost; intelligent
operation and maintenance technology
1. Introduction
Wind energy generation is an important measure to develop a circular economy
and to alleviate resource constraints [ 1]. In contrast to the substantial consumption and
environmental pollution brought on by traditional energy sources, wind energy, as a
technology for electricity conversion using renewable resources, does not generate pollution
during power generation [ 2]. It is therefore of great importance in terms of energy savings
and emission reduction. Over the long term, the economic and environmental beneﬁts
of wind energy are superior to those of conventional power, and its energy conservation
and emission reduction are outstanding, setting a new trend in the future development of
electric power generation and thus establishing a clear trend for the future development
of electric power [ 3]. According to statistics from the Global Wind Energy Council, the
operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of wind turbines can be as much as 10% to 20% of
the total electricity produced and as much as 20% to 25% of the total electricity produced
by offshore wind turbines [4].
Wind energy O&M costs primarily comprise routine maintenance costs, breakdown
maintenance costs, spare part purchase costs, insurance premiums, and administrative
costs. Offshore wind turbines cost about three times as much to run as their onshore
counterparts. The difﬁculty and cost of maintenance has increased with the advent of
large-capacity offshore wind turbines. The cost of operating and maintaining an offshore
wind farm accounts for around 40% of the total life-cycle cost of the project. The cost
structure of offshore wind energy O&M is shown in Figure 1 [ 5]. High failure rates and
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333. https://doi.org/10.3390/su15108333 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 2 of 35
heavy maintenance workloads are the most signiﬁcant challenges in wind energy O&M.
Thus, it is important to ensure efﬁcient and intelligent O&M of wind turbines to reduce
costs and to increase the efﬁcacy of wind farms.
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  2 of 35 
 
 of offshore wind energy O&M is shown in Figure 1 [5]. High failure rates and heavy 
maintenance workloads are the most significant challenges in wind energy O&M. Thus, 
it is important to en sure efficient and intelligent O&M of wind turbines to reduce costs 
and to increase the efficacy of wind farms.  
 
Figure 1. Cost structure of operation and maintenance of offshore wind turbines [5]. 
This paper summarizes the current research, challenges, and countermeasures of in-
telligent O&M in the wind energy industry and forecasts its development trend based on 
a summary of the working principle of wind turbines, fault analysis , and O&M costs. Dif-
ficulties in the O&M process are discussed to provide a reference for future research on 
intelligent O&M in the wind energy industry.  
2. Main Components and Faults Analysis of Wind Turbines  
Currently , the most  widely used type of wind tu rbine is the horizontal axis wind 
turbine with three blades . This type of turbine is mainly composed of a hub, blades, an 
engine room , a diversion hood , a generator , an environmental control system , a pitch sys-
tem, a wind gauge system , and a yaw system  [6]. Wind turbine structures are designed 
according to the working principles and functions of their components to extract kinetic 
energy from the air flow and to convert it into electricity . The structure of a three -blade-
type horizontal axis wind turbine is  shown in Figure 2 . 
 
Figure 2. Three-blade wind turbine structure [7]. 
Figure 1. Cost structure of operation and maintenance of offshore wind turbines [5].
This paper summarizes the current research, challenges, and countermeasures of
intelligent O&M in the wind energy industry and forecasts its development trend based
on a summary of the working principle of wind turbines, fault analysis, and O&M costs.
Difﬁculties in the O&M process are discussed to provide a reference for future research on
intelligent O&M in the wind energy industry.
2. Main Components and Faults Analysis of Wind T urbines
Currently, the most widely used type of wind turbine is the horizontal axis wind
turbine with three blades. This type of turbine is mainly composed of a hub, blades, an
engine room, a diversion hood, a generator, an environmental control system, a pitch
system, a wind gauge system, and a yaw system [ 6]. Wind turbine structures are designed
according to the working principles and functions of their components to extract kinetic
energy from the air ﬂow and to convert it into electricity. The structure of a three-blade-type
horizontal axis wind turbine is shown in Figure 2.
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  2 of 35 
 
 of offshore wind energy O&M is shown in Figure 1 [5]. High failure rates and heavy 
maintenance workloads are the most significant challenges in wind energy O&M. Thus, 
it is important to en sure efficient and intelligent O&M of wind turbines to reduce costs 
and to increase the efficacy of wind farms.  
 
Figure 1. Cost structure of operation and maintenance of offshore wind turbines [5]. 
This paper summarizes the current research, challenges, and countermeasures of in-
telligent O&M in the wind energy industry and forecasts its development trend based on 
a summary of the working principle of wind turbines, fault analysis , and O&M costs. Dif-
ficulties in the O&M process are discussed to provide a reference for future research on 
intelligent O&M in the wind energy industry.  
2. Main Components and Faults Analysis of Wind Turbines  
Currently , the most  widely used type of wind tu rbine is the horizontal axis wind 
turbine with three blades . This type of turbine is mainly composed of a hub, blades, an 
engine room , a diversion hood , a generator , an environmental control system , a pitch sys-
tem, a wind gauge system , and a yaw system  [6]. Wind turbine structures are designed 
according to the working principles and functions of their components to extract kinetic 
energy from the air flow and to convert it into electricity . The structure of a three -blade-
type horizontal axis wind turbine is  shown in Figure 2 . 
 
Figure 2. Three-blade wind turbine structure [7]. 
Figure 2. Three-blade wind turbine structure [7].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 3 of 35
2.1. Analysis of Main Components in Wind Turbine
The main components used in a wind turbine are as follows.
 Blade
In wind turbines, the blades absorb wind energy. They are often made of ﬁber-
reinforced composite materials. In the ﬂow ﬁeld, the blade generates upward lift force
through the pressure difference given by the wind ﬁeld to the upper and lower surfaces,
thus driving the rotation of the wind wheel and converting mechanical energy into electrical
energy [8].
 Pitch System
The pitch system is the central component of any large wind turbine control system. It
adjusts the angle of the blades, maximizing the wind energy output of the wind turbine. To
a large extent, the variable paddle system guarantees the working reliability of the wind
turbine [9].
 Gear box
Gearboxes generally consist of gears, bearings, shafts, and other parts. The quality
and design of the gears directly affect the reliability, service life, and operating efﬁciency
of the gearbox [ 10]. Wind turbine gearboxes are usually made of high-strength, low-alloy
steel materials, which are treated with precision heat treatment and surface strengthening
processes to improve their load-bearing capacity and wear resistance. In general, wind
turbine gearboxes are designed for a service life of about 20 years, while requiring low
noise, low vibration, and reliable operation [11].
 Yaw system
The yaw system is used to control the vectoring of the wind turbine in the direction
of the wind to ensure that the wind turbine is always in the best position. The wind yaw
system consists of a wind sensor, a control system, and an actuator [ 12]. The wind sensor
is responsible for detecting the wind direction. The control system compares the wind
direction signal with the set value and adjusts the orientation angle of the wind turbine
via the actuator so that it always maintains a certain angle from the wind direction, thus
maximizing the wind energy available for power generation [ 13]. The design and operation
of the wind turbine yaw system is extremely important, as it has a direct impact on the
operating efﬁciency and power generation of the wind turbine. Therefore, the yaw system
requires sensitive response and high accuracy, as well as strong durability, anti-interference
capability, and adaptability to different climatic environments [14].
Wind turbines work by converting wind energy into mechanical energy, which is
then converted into electrical energy through a gearbox. As the wind turbine rotates, it
drives the main shaft, which turns the generator through the gearbox and transmits the
electrical energy to the grid [ 15]. However, due to complex mechanical structures and
harsh environments, wear in wind turbine components such as the blades, the hubs, the
gearboxes, and the pitch systems is inevitable and wind turbines are at risk of failure at
any time, leading to a signiﬁcant increase in their operating and maintenance costs. The
purpose of a fault analysis is to determine the cause of the fault; to clearly understand the
nature, location, and reason for the fault; and to take targeted maintenance actions to ensure
normal operation of the wind turbine while reducing cost and maintaining efﬁciency [16].
Therefore, a timely fault analysis is important for wind turbines.
2.2. Analysis of Common Faults in Wind Turbines
In the past, in order to meet the requirements of wind energy generation, wind farms
were usually built at sea or in remote mountainous areas and thus operated in extremely
harsh environments [ 17]. As an important part of a wind farm, a wind turbine is bound to
suffer from the harsh environment. Unpredictable loads due to dust, humidity, temperature,
air pressure, and wind gusts can subject the main load-bearing components in the unit to
severely alternating loads, making the blades and towers highly susceptible to tribological
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 4 of 35
effects such as wear, fatigue, and corrosion, thus leading to unit failure [ 18]. However, new
problems arose as the number of industrial wind turbine installations increased. Some
failures are due to damage to the wind turbine and exceeding the design fatigue limit,
while others are due to new failure modes as a result of material ageing, manufacturing
defects, and changes in rotor size standards. The number of accidents is also increasing as
the number of onshore and offshore wind turbines increases [19].
Figure 3 shows the number of cases of damage to wind turbines around the world
from 2000 to 2017. It shows that as the number of wind turbines installed around the world
has increased, so has the number of accidents. The number of wind turbine accidents
averaged 57 per year from 2000 to 2005 and increased to 118 per year from 2006 to 2010.
Furthermore, between 2013 and 2017, the total number of accidents per year rose even
higher, to 167 [20].
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  4 of 35 
 
 tribological effects such as wear, fatigue, and corrosion, thus leading to unit failure [18]. 
However, new problems arose as the number of industrial wind turbine installations in-
creased. Some failures are due to damage to the wind turbine and exceeding the design 
fatigue limit, while others are due to new failure modes as a result of material age ing, 
manufacturing defects, and changes in rotor size standards. The number of accidents is 
also increasing as the number of onshore and offshore wind turbines increases [19]. 
Figure 3 shows the number of cases of damage to wind turbines around the world 
from 2000 to 2017. It shows that as the number of wind turbines installed around the world 
has increased, so has the number of accidents. The number of wind turbine accidents av-
eraged 57 per year from 2000 to 2005 and increased to 118 per  year from 2006 to 2010. 
Furthermore, between 2013 and 2017, the total number of accidents per year rose even 
higher, to 167 [20]. 
 
Figure 3. Annual statistics of global wind turbine failures [20]. 
Common types of failure in wind turbines include blade failure, gearbox failure, 
pitch system failure, and yaw system failure. The common fault characteristics and causes 
are summarized as follows.  
• Failure of blade  
The cost of manufacturing wind turbine blades is approximately 15% to 20% of the 
total cost of the turbin e [21]. Usually , the blade as a whole is exposed in the field, and 
working conditions can be harsh. These conditions include high altitude s; atmospheric 
radiation ; sand and dust ; lightning ; heavy rain ; freezing rain or ice , and snow ; salt corro-
sion; and typhoons.  Such variable conditions can result in blade failure events; thus , blade 
condition monitoring, early warning systems, and effective O&M analys es are increas-
ingly important [22]. 
The common failure modes of blades are (1) fracture and cracking failu re; (2) damage 
caused by lightning strikes; and (3) local surface abrasion, cracks, etc. Blade failure is often 
accompanied by defects such as folding, poor curing, and unequal layering [23]. The 
causes of blade failure are analyzed below.  
(a) Failure of fract ure and cracking  
• Design defects  
The design of some blades leads to safety issues, including the blade root and blade 
middle section area being too small, the section shape not meeting strength and stiffness 
requirements, and the blade’s actual operating lo ad exceeding the design of the predicted 
limit. Figure 4a shows design defects causing blade fracture. In addition, the redundancy 
amount of each component of the wind turbine , and the spacing and mass of the blades 
Figure 3. Annual statistics of global wind turbine failures [20].
Common types of failure in wind turbines include blade failure, gearbox failure, pitch
system failure, and yaw system failure. The common fault characteristics and causes are
summarized as follows.
 Failure of blade
The cost of manufacturing wind turbine blades is approximately 15% to 20% of the
total cost of the turbine [ 21]. Usually, the blade as a whole is exposed in the ﬁeld, and
working conditions can be harsh. These conditions include high altitudes; atmospheric
radiation; sand and dust; lightning; heavy rain; freezing rain or ice, and snow; salt corrosion;
and typhoons. Such variable conditions can result in blade failure events; thus, blade
condition monitoring, early warning systems, and effective O&M analyses are increasingly
important [22].
The common failure modes of blades are (1) fracture and cracking failure; (2) damage
caused by lightning strikes; and (3) local surface abrasion, cracks, etc. Blade failure is often
accompanied by defects such as folding, poor curing, and unequal layering [ 23]. The causes
of blade failure are analyzed below.
(a) Failure of fracture and cracking
 Design defects
The design of some blades leads to safety issues, including the blade root and blade
middle section area being too small, the section shape not meeting strength and stiffness
requirements, and the blade’s actual operating load exceeding the design of the predicted
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 5 of 35
limit. Figure 4a shows design defects causing blade fracture. In addition, the redundancy
amount of each component of the wind turbine, and the spacing and mass of the blades are
often insufﬁcient in the design. For example, the wind energy capture rate will be reduced
if the blade spacing is too large. Due to disturbance in the airﬂow between the blades, there
will be air leakage and the wind energy cannot be fully utilized. Additionally, there will be
an increase in the volatility of the turbine, and then, the stability will become worse. If the
distance between the blades is too small, it will cause the blades to interfere with each other
and produce their mutual inﬂuence. This will not only reduce the efﬁciency of using wind
energy but also cause the turbine to become overloaded and unsafe. Moreover, a blade
spacing that is too small will also increase the amount of vibration in the unit, accelerate
fatigue failure of the unit, and affect the service life of the unit, leading to problems during
operation [24,25].
 Leaf material quality does not meet requirements
Manufacturers often use unqualiﬁed gel-coat, resin, or ﬁber materials, which have
poor homogeneity and are prone to local soft ribs, leading to sudden leaf failure [26].
 Change in production technology without authorization
At present, high-quality composite blades are mostly manufactured via PRIM (polyamine
reaction injection molding), RTM (resin transfer molding), winding, prepreg, or hot-
pressing processes. However, some manufacturers use hand-paste processes to reduce costs
and to gain market advantages. This phenomenon leads to uneven glue content, poor ﬁber
penetration, and incomplete curing of the blade during production, resulting in problems
such as blade deformation and breakage [27].
 Inexperienced manufacturers
Some manufacturers have insufﬁcient experience, unclear control protocols, and
simple methods. Faced with hundreds of main and auxiliary materials, tools, tooling
processes, molds, and equipment involved in blade manufacturing, quality and production
control is often lacking and inspections are limited to the surface, which cannot guarantee
blade quality [28].
(b) Damage caused by lightning strikes
With the majority of wind energy plants being installed in the open countryside
and in mountainous regions, in addition to the longer operating time of plants and the
deeper soiling of blade surfaces, wind energy plants are increasingly affected by lightning
strikes [ 29]. Figure 4b shows a blade damaged by a lightning strike. Failure due to lightning
strikes on a blade is common at the lightning catcher and other parts of the blade [30].
 Cracks in the lightning conductor and blades
The cementation between the lightning initiator and the blade is not strong, and rain or
moisture absorption can occur, changing the path of mine induction [ 31]. When lightning
strikes the blade, the huge energy released by the lightning leads to a sharp increase in the
temperature of the water-soaked material in the blade structure; then, the decomposed gas
expands at high temperature, and the pressure rises, resulting in damage [32].
 Fouled blade surface
Dust deposition corrodes the blade surface, accelerating blade surface weathering,
burrowing, and elastic weakening and resulting in micro-cracks. These cracks lead to
further corrosion from dust, and mixtures formed by electrostatic dust accelerate blade
corrosion again [33].
(c) Local surface abrasion and cracking
Local surface abrasions occur mainly on the tip-windward side, the mid-windward
side, the leading edge, and the trailing edge of a blade, as shown in Figure 4c [34].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 6 of 35
 Abrasion by wind sand and water vapor
A rotating blade will produce friction and collision with particles (dust and water
vapor) in the air [ 35]. In most cases, the tip velocity of the blade exceeds 70 m/s. At this
speed, the particles in the air will cause wear and tear on the leading edge of the blade and
vortex abrasion on the trailing edge. Though the leaves worn by gravel ﬁrst appear to be
depressed, this depression is actually due to tiny sand holes, and the ageing of materials is
greatly accelerated following the formation of sand holes [ 36]. Water is stored in these sand
holes, and humidity in the depressions increases; thus, this greatly increases the possibility
of the blade being damaged by lightning [37].
 High-speed wind, shear wind, bad weather, and fatigue life
Although blades stop rotating when wind speeds exceed the limit, high-speed winds,
shear winds, or high gusts can cause the blade load to exceed the design load, resulting
in blade damage. Severe weather such as heavy rain, snow, and hail can also cause leaf
damage. With the extension of the service cycle of the blade, the anti-fatigue ability of the
blade is weakened, which will also lead to blade damage [38].
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  6 of 35 
 
 and vortex abrasion on the trailing edge. Though the leaves worn by gravel first appear 
to be depressed, this depression is actually due to tiny sand holes , and the ageing of ma-
terials is greatly accelerated following the formation of sand holes [36]. Water is stored in 
these sand holes, and humidity in the depressions increases; thus, this greatly increase s 
the possibility of the blade being damaged by lightning [37]. 
• High-speed wind, shear wind, bad weather, and fatigue life  
Although blades stop rotating when wind speeds exceed the limit, high -speed winds, 
shear winds, or high gusts can cause the blade load to exceed the design load, resulting in 
blade damage. Severe weather such as heavy rain, snow, and hail can also cause leaf dam-
age. With the e xtension of the service cycle of the blade, the anti -fatigue ability of the blade 
is weakened, which will also lead to blade damage [38]. 
 
Figure 4. Forms of blade failure.  (a) Blade fracture accident caused by design flaw [24]; (b) lightning -
damaged blad e failure [30]; (c) locally abraded blade [34]. 
• Failure of gearbox  
The gearbox contains a large number of gears, and failure of the gears accounts for 
about 60% of total gearbox failures. Failure of the gears is mainly concentrated in the teeth, 
including tooth surface corrosion, tooth surface wear, tooth surface bonding, and broken 
teeth [39]. 
(a) Tooth surface corrosion  
As shown in Figure 5a ,b, tooth surface corrosion mainly includes rust and electric 
corrosion. The most common chemical rust is tooth surface rust, which is mainly due to 
the excessive water content of lubricating oil s or long-term high humidity from air inside 
the gear box, which mostly occurs in areas with abundant summer rain [40]. Corrosion 
occurs when the gear surfaces are in close contact and there is little movement between 
the gears (generally, an amplitude of movement less than 120 μm). Under such conditions, 
the film of the lubricating oil between the gear teeth cracks due to compression, which 
leads to direct contact between th e metals and results in adhesion of the micro -bulges on to 
the gear surface. Under these relatively small movements, there can be tearing of the gear 
contact surface by fusion welding adhesion as well as the production of a fine reddish -
brown iron oxide pow der similar in color to coffee beans. As a result, the gear develops 
abrasive wear. During this process, close contact between debris or worn edges of the gear 
will further prevent lubricating oil from reaching the surface of the gear. Corrosion results 
in deterioration over time and often occurs in relatively stationary gear drives.  
Figure 4. Forms of blade failure. ( a) Blade fracture accident caused by design ﬂaw [ 24]; (b) lightning-
damaged blade failure [30]; ( c) locally abraded blade [34].
 Failure of gearbox
The gearbox contains a large number of gears, and failure of the gears accounts for
about 60% of total gearbox failures. Failure of the gears is mainly concentrated in the teeth,
including tooth surface corrosion, tooth surface wear, tooth surface bonding, and broken
teeth [39].
(a) Tooth surface corrosion
As shown in Figure 5a,b, tooth surface corrosion mainly includes rust and electric
corrosion. The most common chemical rust is tooth surface rust, which is mainly due to
the excessive water content of lubricating oils or long-term high humidity from air inside
the gear box, which mostly occurs in areas with abundant summer rain [ 40]. Corrosion
occurs when the gear surfaces are in close contact and there is little movement between the
gears (generally, an amplitude of movement less than 120 m). Under such conditions, the
ﬁlm of the lubricating oil between the gear teeth cracks due to compression, which leads to
direct contact between the metals and results in adhesion of the micro-bulges onto the gear
surface. Under these relatively small movements, there can be tearing of the gear contact
surface by fusion welding adhesion as well as the production of a ﬁne reddish-brown
iron oxide powder similar in color to coffee beans. As a result, the gear develops abrasive
wear. During this process, close contact between debris or worn edges of the gear will
further prevent lubricating oil from reaching the surface of the gear. Corrosion results in
deterioration over time and often occurs in relatively stationary gear drives.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 7 of 35
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  7 of 35 
 
  
Figure 5. Tooth surface corrosion [40]. (a) Tooth surface corrosion; ( b) electric corrosion of tooth 
surface.  
(b) Tooth surface wear  
Tooth surface wear can be divided into micro -pitting, macro -pitting, tooth surface 
spalling, and fretting wear according to different causes and levels of severity [41]. 
Micro-pitting, also known as gray spot, is a gray damage phenomenon appearing on 
the tooth surface of the gear during long -term eng agement, as shown in Figure 6a [42,43]. 
The causes of wear are relatively complex. It is generally believed that due to problems in 
machining accuracy during gear handling, there are tiny bumps on the surface of the 
teeth, which results in the oil film not  covering 100% of the gear surface or the thickness 
of the cover being insufficient. During meshing of these bumps, the teeth suffer from fric-
tion and shear stress, fatigue, and local overheating, resulting in micro -pitting.  
Macro-pitting is the formation of small potholes when the gear contact surface is split 
by fatigue. Not only relative rolling but also relative sliding occurs during gear meshing. 
Due to material defects or excessive short -term load s caused by the impact force of the 
gear, the shear str ess generated by relative sliding of the tooth surface will exceed the 
fatigue limit of the material for a short time, and fatigue cracks will occur on the tooth 
surface [44]. As the operation continues, the crack expands, and eventually , metal particles 
begin to flake off at the crack boundary; this phenomenon is called macroscopic pitting 
[45]. Figure 6b shows the gear damage caused by macroscopic pitting on the tooth surface 
[46]. If the fatigue crack continues to expand, eventually there will be massive  spallation 
of the surface.  
Fretting wear, also known as a “black line”, is a composite type of wear generated 
between metal surfaces that are pressed together, as shown in Figure 6c [47]. The reason 
for this wear is that the gearbox stops running for a n extended period of time, and the 
tooth surface above the lubricating oil level does not receive lubrication. Small vibrations 
bring about constant reciprocal meshing between the gears, and alternating contact 
stresses appear; a black line will appear on the  tooth surface of the gear bite. With time, 
pitting and even cracks will gradually appear from fretting wear due to high temperatures 
and oil shortages; subsequently, a tooth fracture will occur [48]. 
Figure 5. Tooth surface corrosion [ 40].(a) Tooth surface corrosion; ( b) electric corrosion of tooth surface.
(b) Tooth surface wear
Tooth surface wear can be divided into micro-pitting, macro-pitting, tooth surface
spalling, and fretting wear according to different causes and levels of severity [41].
Micro-pitting, also known as gray spot, is a gray damage phenomenon appearing on
the tooth surface of the gear during long-term engagement, as shown in Figure 6a [ 42,43].
The causes of wear are relatively complex. It is generally believed that due to problems in
machining accuracy during gear handling, there are tiny bumps on the surface of the teeth,
which results in the oil ﬁlm not covering 100% of the gear surface or the thickness of the
cover being insufﬁcient. During meshing of these bumps, the teeth suffer from friction and
shear stress, fatigue, and local overheating, resulting in micro-pitting.
Macro-pitting is the formation of small potholes when the gear contact surface is split
by fatigue. Not only relative rolling but also relative sliding occurs during gear meshing.
Due to material defects or excessive short-term loads caused by the impact force of the
gear, the shear stress generated by relative sliding of the tooth surface will exceed the
fatigue limit of the material for a short time, and fatigue cracks will occur on the tooth
surface [ 44]. As the operation continues, the crack expands, and eventually, metal particles
begin to ﬂake off at the crack boundary; this phenomenon is called macroscopic pitting [ 45].
Figure 6b shows the gear damage caused by macroscopic pitting on the tooth surface [ 46].
If the fatigue crack continues to expand, eventually there will be massive spallation of
the surface.
Fretting wear, also known as a “black line”, is a composite type of wear generated
between metal surfaces that are pressed together, as shown in Figure 6c [ 47]. The reason
for this wear is that the gearbox stops running for an extended period of time, and the
tooth surface above the lubricating oil level does not receive lubrication. Small vibrations
bring about constant reciprocal meshing between the gears, and alternating contact stresses
appear; a black line will appear on the tooth surface of the gear bite. With time, pitting
and even cracks will gradually appear from fretting wear due to high temperatures and oil
shortages; subsequently, a tooth fracture will occur [48].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 8 of 35
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 35 
 
  
Figure 6. Forms of partial gearbox failure. ( a) Micro-pitting of tooth surface [43]; (b) macroscopic 
pitting of tooth surface; ( c) gear fretting wear [46]. 
(c) Tooth surface gluing  
Tooth surface gluing is the direct contact between two tooth surfaces due to rupture 
of the oil film under pressure, which resu lts in adhesion and tearing. Depending on the 
mechanism of production, there are two types of gluing: hot gluing and cold gluing [49]. 
In the event of gear wear, vibration , or overload, the worn gear surface will generate high 
frictional heat. At this time , if the lubricant temperature is too high, the oil film fails and 
the tooth surfaces come into direct contact, resulting in thermoplastic deformation. Even 
if the lubrication is restored and the deformation produced by the tooth surface is memo-
rized, the tooth surface will continue to undergo thermoplastic modulus deformation, 
which is also known as the gear hot glue phenomenon [50]. Cold gluing is caused by the 
low sliding speed of the gear. The meshing part thus does not easily form an oil film, 
resulting in a local pressure increase. The two contact surfaces of the oil film are punc-
tured, resulting in adhesion tear [51]. 
(d) Broken g ear teeth  
Broken g ear teeth include fatigue -broken teeth and overload -broken teeth, as shown 
in Figure 7a ,b [52]. This is failure caused by alternating loads exceeding the fatigue limit 
of materials [53]. Fatigue fractures can be divided into three zones: the fatigue crack source 
zone, the crack extension zone, and the transient fracture zone. Their development proc ess 
can be roughly divided into root bending stress, initial fatigue crack, continuous crack 
propagation, and tooth fracture [54]. An overload fracture occurs when the load on the 
tooth surface is greater than the maximum load. The macroscopic characterist ics of the 
fracture are the same as that for a tensile fracture in the material, with a pronounced crin-
kling phenomenon. The development process of overload -broken teeth can be roughly 
divided into local tooth fracture caused by short -term overload impact, local fracture of 
gear with smaller tooth width, and fracture of helical gear or spur gear with larger tooth 
width [55]. 
 
Figure 7. Broken teeth. ( a) Fatigue-broken teeth; ( b) overload -broken teeth [52]. 
• Failure of pitch system  
Figure 6. Forms of partial gearbox failure. ( a) Micro-pitting of tooth surface [ 43]; (b) macroscopic
pitting of tooth surface; ( c) gear fretting wear [46].
(c) Tooth surface gluing
Tooth surface gluing is the direct contact between two tooth surfaces due to rupture
of the oil ﬁlm under pressure, which results in adhesion and tearing. Depending on the
mechanism of production, there are two types of gluing: hot gluing and cold gluing [ 49].
In the event of gear wear, vibration, or overload, the worn gear surface will generate high
frictional heat. At this time, if the lubricant temperature is too high, the oil ﬁlm fails and the
tooth surfaces come into direct contact, resulting in thermoplastic deformation. Even if the
lubrication is restored and the deformation produced by the tooth surface is memorized,
the tooth surface will continue to undergo thermoplastic modulus deformation, which is
also known as the gear hot glue phenomenon [ 50]. Cold gluing is caused by the low sliding
speed of the gear. The meshing part thus does not easily form an oil ﬁlm, resulting in a
local pressure increase. The two contact surfaces of the oil ﬁlm are punctured, resulting in
adhesion tear [51].
(d) Broken gear teeth
Broken gear teeth include fatigue-broken teeth and overload-broken teeth, as shown
in Figure 7a,b [ 52]. This is failure caused by alternating loads exceeding the fatigue limit
of materials [ 53]. Fatigue fractures can be divided into three zones: the fatigue crack
source zone, the crack extension zone, and the transient fracture zone. Their development
process can be roughly divided into root bending stress, initial fatigue crack, continuous
crack propagation, and tooth fracture [ 54]. An overload fracture occurs when the load on
the tooth surface is greater than the maximum load. The macroscopic characteristics of
the fracture are the same as that for a tensile fracture in the material, with a pronounced
crinkling phenomenon. The development process of overload-broken teeth can be roughly
divided into local tooth fracture caused by short-term overload impact, local fracture of
gear with smaller tooth width, and fracture of helical gear or spur gear with larger tooth
width [55].
 Failure of pitch system
There are three main forms of failure in the pitch system.
(a) Pitch shaft cabinet battery under voltage
If there is a failure of the pitch shaft cabinet battery, it is possible that one of the
batteries in the fan blade battery cabinet has been damaged due to prolonged use or that
the battery charging circuit is faulty, in which case the battery power provided by the
battery cabinet is below the critical lower limit, and the paddle cannot change pitch [ 56,57].
(b) Abnormal hub detection data
If the hub detection data are abnormal, the wind turbine’s pitch communication system
will fail. The wind turbine nacelle and hub communicate via a bus of electrical slip rings.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 9 of 35
When wind turbines are operated for long periods of time, problems in communication
due to foreign objects or slip ring failures may occur [58–60].
(c) Paddle angle deviation exceeds limit
The rotation angle of the paddles can exceed the lower or upper limit of the pre-
set paddle angle due to rotation overruns during operation or shutdown of the wind
turbine [61,62].
 Failure of yaw system
The yaw system is an important components of a wind turbine. Its function is to track
the change in wind direction and to drive the nacelle to rotate around the central axis of the
tower, so that the wind turbine is always in the windward position [ 63]. In the course of
wind energy O&M, faults in the yaw system constantly appear, especially in the mechanical
parts, which are characterized by frequent maintenance difﬁculties and various types of
faults [64]. Common failures in wind turbine yaw systems are as follows.
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 35 
 
  
Figure 6. Forms of partial gearbox failure. ( a) Micro-pitting of tooth surface [43]; (b) macroscopic 
pitting of tooth surface; ( c) gear fretting wear [46]. 
(c) Tooth surface gluing  
Tooth surface gluing is the direct contact between two tooth surfaces due to rupture 
of the oil film under pressure, which resu lts in adhesion and tearing. Depending on the 
mechanism of production, there are two types of gluing: hot gluing and cold gluing [49]. 
In the event of gear wear, vibration , or overload, the worn gear surface will generate high 
frictional heat. At this time , if the lubricant temperature is too high, the oil film fails and 
the tooth surfaces come into direct contact, resulting in thermoplastic deformation. Even 
if the lubrication is restored and the deformation produced by the tooth surface is memo-
rized, the tooth surface will continue to undergo thermoplastic modulus deformation, 
which is also known as the gear hot glue phenomenon [50]. Cold gluing is caused by the 
low sliding speed of the gear. The meshing part thus does not easily form an oil film, 
resulting in a local pressure increase. The two contact surfaces of the oil film are punc-
tured, resulting in adhesion tear [51]. 
(d) Broken g ear teeth  
Broken g ear teeth include fatigue -broken teeth and overload -broken teeth, as shown 
in Figure 7a ,b [52]. This is failure caused by alternating loads exceeding the fatigue limit 
of materials [53]. Fatigue fractures can be divided into three zones: the fatigue crack source 
zone, the crack extension zone, and the transient fracture zone. Their development proc ess 
can be roughly divided into root bending stress, initial fatigue crack, continuous crack 
propagation, and tooth fracture [54]. An overload fracture occurs when the load on the 
tooth surface is greater than the maximum load. The macroscopic characterist ics of the 
fracture are the same as that for a tensile fracture in the material, with a pronounced crin-
kling phenomenon. The development process of overload -broken teeth can be roughly 
divided into local tooth fracture caused by short -term overload impact, local fracture of 
gear with smaller tooth width, and fracture of helical gear or spur gear with larger tooth 
width [55]. 
 
Figure 7. Broken teeth. ( a) Fatigue-broken teeth; ( b) overload -broken teeth [52]. 
• Failure of pitch system  
Figure 7. Broken teeth. ( a) Fatigue-broken teeth; ( b) overload-broken teeth [52].
(a) Abnormal noise
 Yaw drive motor
Yaw drive motor issues include the following: the motor rotor adopts a sealed bearing;
the bearing lubricating oil deteriorates due to age [ 65,66]; the raceway, roller, and bearing
cage of the bearing are damaged; the position of the brake grinding disc at the rear of the
motor is not correct; the grinding disc is worn; and the cooling blade is broken or the blade
is rubbing the rear end cover of the motor [67].
 Yaw transmission
Yaw transmission issues include the following: a lack of lubricating oil or deterioration
of the lubricating oil in the planetary gear train of yaw transmission; excessive content
of mechanical impurities in the lubricating oil; transmission bearing damage; a lack of
lubricating grease in the transmission; and yaw gear occlusion [68].
 Yaw big gear ring
Gear ring issues include the following: the lubrication grease on the tooth surface of
the gear ring can be inﬁltrated by sand; the positioning pin or ﬁxing bolt assembling the
rack of the big gear ring is loose; and the big gear ring is broken [69,70].
 Yaw gear pair ﬁt clearance
Each blade yaw mechanism is provided with two to four yaw drivers [ 71]. If the ﬁt
clearance between the drive gear and the yaw gear with large ring teeth is uneven, noise
from the gear bite clearance is likely to occur during yaw [72].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 10 of 35
 Yaw bearing
There are two types of yaw bearings: sliding bearings and rolling bearings [ 73]. Due to
the low speed of the yaw bearings and the lack of lubricating grease in the rolling bearings,
the bearings are corroded by the current, causing scorching of the bearing rollers [ 74].
The sliders in the sliding bearings are made of Teﬂon material, and some are lined with
friction-reducing material between the sliders and the slewing disc; noise can come from
slider failure [75].
 Yaw brake
Cracks in the friction discs, faulty adjustment of the caliper body compensation device,
and uneven damping torque values in the brake are caused by excessive damping pressure
in the yaw brake or by the presence of sand and mechanical impurities on the friction
surface [76].
(b) Yaw drive machinery is stuck
First, yaw motor bearings are sealed bearings, and staff are unable to regularly re-
plenish the lubricant; this results in fatigue damage to the bearings due to high and low
temperature differences [ 77–79]. Second, the yaw drive is mounted vertically, with the yaw
drive bearing at the lower end. The bearing carries a large inertial force from the large gear
ring, and mechanical magazines within the drive tend to enter the bearing gap [ 80]. Third,
the yaw drive gear is susceptible to over-torque damage at the moment of start or stop of
the yaw system, especially during gusts in periods of high wind [ 81]. Fourth, the sliding
yaw bearing liner can crack. This failure is related to the quality of the liner material and
the yaw caliper balancing torque [82].
(c) Inaccurate yaw positioning
Inaccurate yaw positioning can be caused by brake failure of the yaw motor, insufﬁ-
cient yaw braking pressure, and low yaw braking torque values [ 83,84]. Broken teeth of the
yaw gear ring and yaw drive device are shown in Figure 8a,b [85,86].
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  10 of 35 
 
 • Yaw brake  
Cracks in the friction discs, faulty adjustme nt of the caliper body compensation de-
vice, and uneven damping torque values in the brake are caused by excessive damping 
pressure in the yaw brake or by the presence of sand and mechanical impurities on the 
friction surface [76]. 
(b) Yaw drive machinery is st uck 
First, yaw motor bearings are sealed bearings, and staff are unable to regularly re-
plenish the lubricant; this results in fatigue damage to the bearings due to high and low 
temperature differences [77–79]. Second, the yaw drive is mounted vertically, w ith the 
yaw drive bearing at the lower end. The bearing carries a large inertial force from the large 
gear ring, and mechanical magazines within the drive tend to enter the bearing gap [80]. 
Third, the yaw drive gear is susceptible to over -torque damage at  the moment of start or 
stop of the yaw system, especially during gusts in periods of high wind [81]. Fourth, the 
sliding yaw bearing liner can crack. This failure is related to the quality of the liner mate-
rial and the yaw caliper balancing torque [82]. 
(c) Inaccurate yaw positioning  
Inaccurate yaw positioning can be caused by brake failure of the yaw motor, insuffi-
cient yaw braking pressure, and low yaw braking torque values [83,84]. Broken teeth of 
the yaw gear ring and yaw drive device are shown in Figure 8 a,b [85,86]. 
 
Figure 8. Yaw gear failure mode. ( a) Yaw ring gear broken tooth [85]; (b) yaw drive gear broken 
teeth [86]. 
Often, a failure has multiple causes and is accompanied by multiple failure modes. 
Figure 9 summarizes the failure modes of key wind turbine components. Due to the harsh 
operating conditions of wind turbines, the constant changes in environment, temperature, 
and load make it extremely likely for individual wind turbine components to fail; Table 1 
lists the main causes of failure modes f or each component. If researchers are able to ana-
lyze these failure modes and their causes, combined with a signal processing analysis and 
determination of component operating conditions, it will be easier to identify specific 
component failure types, maki ng fault diagnosis more efficient and further enabling a re-
duction in costs and an increase in efficiency.  
Figure 8. Yaw gear failure mode. ( a) Yaw ring gear broken tooth [ 85]; (b) yaw drive gear broken
teeth [86].
Often, a failure has multiple causes and is accompanied by multiple failure modes.
Figure 9 summarizes the failure modes of key wind turbine components. Due to the harsh
operating conditions of wind turbines, the constant changes in environment, temperature,
and load make it extremely likely for individual wind turbine components to fail; Table 1
lists the main causes of failure modes for each component. If researchers are able to analyze
these failure modes and their causes, combined with a signal processing analysis and
determination of component operating conditions, it will be easier to identify speciﬁc
component failure types, making fault diagnosis more efﬁcient and further enabling a
reduction in costs and an increase in efﬁciency.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 11 of 35
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  11 of 35 
 
  
Figure 9. The failure modes of key wind turbine components.  
Table 1. The main causes of failure modes for each component.  
Failure Mode of Each Component  Main Causes  
Fracture and cracking  Design defects; poor quality; change in process; 
lack of production experience  
Lightning strikes  Cracks in components; fouled blade surface  
Local surface abrasion and crack  Abrasion by wind, sand, and water vapor; ex-
treme weather  
Tooth surface corrosion  Excessive water content of lubricating oil; wet 
working environment  
Tooth surface wear  Machining accuracy; material defect; short-term 
overload; inactivity for a n extended  period  
Tooth surface gluing  High -speed or low -speed heavy load  
Broken teeth  Fatigue; overload  
Pitch shaft cabinet battery under  volt-
age Shaft cabinet battery under  voltage; charging 
loop fault  
Abnormal hub detection data  Communication failure  
Paddle angle deviation exceeds limit  Rotational overrun  
Figure 9. The failure modes of key wind turbine components.
Table 1. The main causes of failure modes for each component.
Failure Mode of Each Component Main Causes
Fracture and crackingDesign defects; poor quality; change in process; lack of
production experience
Lightning strikes Cracks in components; fouled blade surface
Local surface abrasion and crackAbrasion by wind, sand, and water vapor;
extreme weather
Tooth surface corrosionExcessive water content of lubricating oil; wet
working environment
Tooth surface wearMachining accuracy; material defect; short-term
overload; inactivity for an extended period
Tooth surface gluing High-speed or low-speed heavy load
Broken teeth Fatigue; overload
Pitch shaft cabinet battery
under voltageShaft cabinet battery under voltage; charging loop fault
Abnormal hub detection data Communication failure
Paddle angle deviation exceeds limit Rotational overrun
Abnormal noiseDeterioration of driving motor oil; transmission bearing
damage; ring tooth broken; uneven ring clearance; lack
of grease in yaw system; brake damping pressure
exceeds limit
Yaw drive machinery stuck Planetary gear train failure
Inaccurate yaw positioning Brake failure of yaw motor
3. Cost Analysis of Intelligent Operation and Maintenance for Wind Energy
The main purpose of a wind power intelligent O&M cost analysis is to determine the
cost structure and scale of this O&M, to evaluate its feasibility, and to provide important
guidance and reference for its implementation. First, by analyzing the cost structure and
scale of wind power intelligent O&M, the speciﬁc costs and budgets for each phase can
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 12 of 35
be understood; this is conducive to achieving more effective cost control and budget
management. Second, a cost analysis can evaluate the feasibility and economic beneﬁts
of wind power intelligent O&M and can clarify whether there is a commercial value and
market prospect for investment. In addition, a cost analysis can provide speciﬁc guidance
and reference for the implementation of intelligent O&M, including equipment selection,
personnel training, management processes, and other aspects. At the same time, based on
the analysis results, a more scientiﬁc and reasonable implementation plan can be developed,
improving the efﬁciency and success rate of intelligent O&M implementation. Without a
cost analysis in the early stage of implementation, it is impossible to determine a sustainable
business model.
3.1. Analysis of Wind Power Intelligent Operation and Maintenance Cost Components
Currently, intelligent O&M for wind turbines can be broken down into online moni-
toring and diagnosis and ofﬂine maintenance [ 87]. The online monitoring and diagnosis
system mainly includes three functions: intelligent detection, intelligent maintenance, and
advanced application [ 29]. The intelligent detection function will comprehensively monitor
the performance parameters and power parameters of online and ofﬂine blade equipment
and upload the monitoring data to the wind farm and headquarters [ 88]. The intelligent
maintenance function classiﬁes the data signals collected from all dimensions of the device
blade to detect major faults or hidden dangers during device operation in a timely manner.
Advanced application functions include multi-angle and overall data analyses and intelli-
gent judgments on the problems arising during equipment detection and maintenance and
reasonably estimate the possible problems based on large-scale data mining [89].
To ensure that equipment and systems work stably and safely during normal operation
of a wind energy project, wind farm staff also need to regularly maintain and inspect
wind turbines; these costs are known as the maintenance costs [ 90]. For onshore wind
farms, maintenance costs for wind turbines include maintenance personnel costs, material
costs, and technical transformation costs [ 91]. Maintenance costs vary depending on the
type of equipment used on a wind farm. Maintenance costs refer to the total cost of
manual inspection and repair in order to restore the wind turbine to normal operation after
failure, including labor, machinery, and spare parts costs [ 92]. For different types of wind
turbines, the recovery rate and utilization rate of equipment failure are different, as are the
maintenance costs [ 93]. The O&M of offshore wind farms differs signiﬁcantly from that of
onshore wind farms, and these points of difference clearly affect the cost of offshore wind
O&M [94].
The cost of intelligent O&M for wind power installations consists of seven components,
as shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Components of the intelligent O&M costs for wind power systems.
Cost Type Cost Content
Hardware costsThe cost of hardware equipment required by wind power intelligent
O&M software, such as servers and data storage devices [95]
Software costsCopyright fee and usage fee for wind power intelligent O&M
software [96]
Labor costsLabor maintenance costs, including technical support, system
updates, etc., as well as labor costs for maintaining wind power
equipment [97]
Communication costs Communication costs related to intelligent O&M [98]
Monitoring
equipment costsThe cost of monitoring and testing equipment, such as sensors and
measuring equipment [99]
Operating costsIncludes costs for manpower, materials, and funds required for daily
operation management, supervision, maintenance, and
troubleshooting; predictive maintenance and scheduled maintenance;
coordination and organizational management [100]
Training costsThe cost of training personnel to use intelligent wind power O&M
systems, including the cost of training facilities and labor costs [101]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 13 of 35
3.2. Analysis of Wind Power Intelligent Operation and Maintenance Cost Control
As the scale of wind power development continues to expand, traditional maintenance
methods are becoming obsolete. First, the wind farm station service environment is
harsh and largely unattended, and manual inspection is difﬁcult and costly. Second,
the unit is scattered and complex, with variable operating conditions and low reliability,
resulting in maintenance difﬁculties. Third, the high cost of repair and replacement of large
components accounts for a high proportion of the infrastructure and power generation
costs. Fourth, regular maintenance is not timely, and after-the-fact maintenance affects the
overall efﬁciency of power generation [ 102–104]. Compared with traditional maintenance
technologies, wind power intelligent O&M technology uses big data, artiﬁcial intelligence,
and other technologies to manage systems more efﬁciently and to ensure their safety and
stability through automatic monitoring and preventive measures. In addition, this O&M
technology can address issues faster and more efﬁciently, thus reducing downtime and
losses, lowering maintenance and repair costs, and improving the sustainability of wind
power generation systems [105,106].
However, with the large-scale development in the past decade, wind power generation
technology has matured in various aspects, such as model design, micro-siting, construc-
tion and installation, and operation and control; as a result, problems have gradually
increased, and the cost of wind power intelligent O&M has also increased [ 107]. Wind
power intelligent O&M requires signiﬁcant technical investment, including software and
hardware equipment and network communications infrastructure. Such devices must
be constantly updated and maintained, and they require professional technical staff to
manage, operate, and maintain equipment [ 108]. Intelligent O&M requires the collection
and processing of data from numerous sensors to detect equipment failures and to provide
early warning. These data require long-term storage, analysis, and processing, which
necessitates appropriate storage equipment and data analysis software [ 109]. Again, in-
telligent O&M requires professional technicians for such maintenance and management,
and personnel must have advanced technical skills and professionalism. Therefore, com-
panies need to invest appropriate human resources and funds for recruitment, training,
and management [ 110]. Finally, intelligent O&M requires continuous equipment updates
and maintenance to ensure equipment performance and reliability. These updates and
maintenance require a large amount of capital and human resources [111].
As shown in Figure 10, between 2018 and 2022, the number of wind turbines installed
in China increased from 62,000 to 117,000, while the cost of wind power intelligent O&M
increased from USD 14.7 billion to USD 20.1 billion. It can be predicted that the cost of
wind power intelligent O&M will continue to rise in the next ﬁve years, suggesting an
urgent need to control the cost of wind power intelligent O&M [112].
As the cost of wind power intelligent O&M increases year by year, more and more
scholars in the ﬁeld are conducting in-depth research on wind power intelligent O&M
cost control. Through collation and rational analysis, the following four categories of
methodological systems are presented.
 Decision support system
The decision support system can help power companies prevent equipment failures
and damage by providing real-time equipment monitoring and maintenance information,
thereby reducing the number of repairs and the time needed to complete them and thus
lowering maintenance costs [ 113]. It can also integrate advanced intelligent optimization
algorithms, such as genetic algorithms and fuzzy cluster analysis, to optimize the processes
and parameters of wind power intelligent O&M, thereby reducing operating costs [ 114]. By
analyzing and visualizing the large amount of data generated during wind power intelligent
O&M, trends and anomalies can be identiﬁed to better understand the operational status
and conditions of the equipment, thereby improving operational efﬁciency and accuracy
and reducing maintenance costs [ 115]. By comprehensively controlling these aspects, the
decision support system can effectively reduce the cost of wind power intelligent O&M.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 14 of 35
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  14 of 35 
 
 maintenance to ensure equipment performance and reliability. These updates and mainte-
nance require a large amount of capital and human resources [111]. 
As shown in Figure 10, between 2018 and 2022, the number of wind turbines installed 
in China increased from 62,000 to 117,000, while the cost of wind power intelligent O&M 
increased from USD 14.7 billion to USD 20.1 billion. It can be predicted that the cost of 
wind power intelligent O&M will continue to rise in the next five years, suggesting an 
urgent need to control the cost of wind power intelligent O&M [112]. 
 
Figure 10. Installed wind tu rbine capacity and intelligent O&M costs in China, 2018 –2022 [112]. 
As the cost of wind power intelligent O&M increases year by year, more and more 
scholars in the field are conducting in -depth research on wind power intelligent O&M 
cost control. Through collation and rational analysis, the following four categories of 
methodological systems are presented.  
• Decision support system  
The decision support system can help power companies prevent equipment failures 
and damage by providing real -time equipm ent monitoring and maintenance information, 
thereby reducing the number of repairs and the time needed to complete them and thus 
lowering maintenance costs [113]. It can also integrate advanced intelligent optimization 
algorithms, such as genetic algorithm s and fuzzy cluster analysis, to optimize the pro-
cesses and parameters of wind power intelligent O&M, thereby reducing operating costs 
[114]. By analyzing and visualizing the large amount of data generated during wind 
power intelligent O&M, trends and anom alies can be identified to better understand the 
operational status and conditions of the equipment, thereby improving operational effi-
ciency and accuracy and reducing maintenance costs [115]. By comprehensively control-
ling these aspects, the decision supp ort system can effectively reduce the cost of wind 
power intelligent O&M.  
• Fault warning and health management  
Fault warning and health management can detect the fault information of wind tur-
bines early on, leading to timely repair or replacement and thus i mproving the reliability 
and stability of the equipment [116]. It can also accurately determine the timeline and 
scope of equipment to be repaired and replaced, avoiding manual inspection and mainte-
nance time and thus reducing O&M costs. Through the analys is and prediction of 
Figure 10. Installed wind turbine capacity and intelligent O&M costs in China, 2018–2022 [112].
 Fault warning and health management
Fault warning and health management can detect the fault information of wind tur-
bines early on, leading to timely repair or replacement and thus improving the reliability
and stability of the equipment [ 116]. It can also accurately determine the timeline and scope
of equipment to be repaired and replaced, avoiding manual inspection and maintenance
time and thus reducing O&M costs. Through the analysis and prediction of equipment
operation data to develop a more accurate maintenance plan, timely monitoring and ad-
justment of equipment operation status can take place, reducing unnecessary maintenance
work and improving maintenance efﬁciency and quality [117].
 Life-Cycle Assessment
Life-cycle assessment is a method used to evaluate and, in turn, control the cost
of wind power intelligent O&M. First, in the planning stage, factors such as the use of
wind power, intelligent O&M, implementation factors, and environmental impact must
be considered to ensure the rationality and feasibility of the system. This assessment
also collects and analyzes a large amount of data from wind turbines to evaluate their
operational efﬁciency and economy over their life cycle [ 118]. Data collection and analysis
can be performed using tools such as sensors, monitoring equipment, and data analysis
software. Second, by evaluating the actual operation of the wind power intelligent O&M
system, the performance in terms of efﬁciency, cost, and sustainability over its life cycle
can be evaluated, summarized, and analyzed [ 119]. Third, by continuously improving
the system, its efﬁciency and economy can be improved, thus reducing costs. Fourth,
by decommissioning the system, the life cycle of wind power intelligent O&M can be
completed, and further maintenance and repair can be avoided [ 120]. The control of wind
power intelligent O&M costs through life-cycle assessment can effectively improve the
efﬁciency and economy of the system.
 Digital twin system
The digital twin system can quickly detect equipment faults, digitally determine the
cause of faults, and provide repair solutions and data support, which can reduce the time
and cost of manual inspection and equipment repair and can improve the automated
O&M of wind farms [ 121]. In addition, it can warn of wind farm failures, enable early
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 15 of 35
intervention of maintenance teams, and provide optimization recommendations through
simulation solutions to help wind farms improve power generation efﬁciency by reducing
troubleshooting time and costs, thereby balancing costs and beneﬁts [122].
In summary, intelligent O&M cost control is key to improving the economic beneﬁts
of wind power operation. Through scientiﬁc and reasonable O&M cost control, wind
farms can improve their proﬁts and increase their economic beneﬁts. Conducting wind
power intelligent O&M cost control can also ensure that staff pay more attention to the
operation status of wind power plants, ﬁnding and correcting faults in a timely manner,
thus improving the operation efﬁciency of wind power plants. With the rapid development
of the wind power industry, the competition between enterprises is becoming more and
more intense. Scientiﬁc and reasonable control of wind power intelligent O&M costs can
reduce the cost of enterprise products and improve the competitiveness of enterprises.
4. Research on Key Technologies for Intelligent Operation and Maintenance of
Wind T urbines
The intelligent O&M of wind turbines is based on the integration of cloud computing
and big data to build a new energy intelligent platform for full data sharing and data value
deep mining. An online O&M solution based on a wind turbine condition assessment
model can improve station O&M capabilities and operational decision making [ 123–125].
It mainly focuses on preventive maintenance and optimization of spare part storage and
supply strategies. In order to improve the safety and reliability of wind turbines and
reduce O&M costs, it is essential to study the key technologies [ 126]. The development of
intelligent wind turbine O&M can be classiﬁed into several stages, as follows. The ﬁrst
stage is based on decision support systems. The second stage is centered on the fault
diagnosis model. The third stage involves the use of life-cycle assessment. In this section, a
summary of existing and potential key technologies is presented.
4.1. Decision Support Systems
Many factors affect the choice of maintenance policy, such as failure probability and
weather conditions. It is unreasonable to expect O&M staff to take all these factors into
account when making decisions [ 127]. Hence, the emergence of decision support systems,
which can be used to provide decision makers with multiple and cost-effective options. The
decision support system (DSS) is an intelligence-based human–computer system that sup-
ports decision-making activities based on the principles of management science, operational
research, simulation, and behavioral science and uses computer technology, simulation, and
information technology as a means to address semi-structured decision-making problems.
The system is able to provide the decision maker with the necessary data and background
to help clarify the objectives of the decision, to carry out problem identiﬁcation, to build or
modify decision models, and to consider different alternatives [ 128]. Various options can
be evaluated and analyzed, compared, and judged through human–computer interaction
functions, providing the necessary support for correct decision making [129,130].
Stamatescu et al. [ 131] described the development of a decision support system (DSS)
for low-voltage networks incorporating renewable energy sources (photovoltaic panels and
wind turbines), with the aim of achieving energy balance in pilot micro-grids, reducing
network energy consumption, and lowering operating costs. However, during operation,
the method only considers the qualitative beneﬁt of the energy provided by the micro-
grid subsystem, rather than the exact value provided by the government, which may
lead to small ﬂuctuations in the experimental results. Rinaldi et al. [ 132] proposed a
corrective maintenance decision model, which can restore components to a good state and
restore reliability values to the initial state. Figure 11 shows the workﬂow diagram of the
model. Aiming at minimizing maintenance costs, Nguyen et al. [ 133] proposed a single
maintenance plan and a group maintenance plan for offshore wind energy systems. The
proposed method takes into account system reliability, weather conditions, maintenance
time, generation losses during maintenance, location of offshore wind systems, and other
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 16 of 35
parameters neglected in existing studies, which improves the accuracy of the method.
Although the method reduces the cost of operating and maintaining offshore wind energy,
it is only used in some parts of Taiwan and has not been tested in other regions.
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  16 of 35 
 
 4.1. Decision Support Systems  
Many factors affect the choice of maintenance policy, such as failure probability and 
weather conditions. I t is unreasonable to expect O&M staff to take all these factors into 
account when making decisions [127]. Hence, the emergence of decision support systems, 
which can be used to provide decision makers with multiple and cost -effective options. 
The decision support system (DSS) is an intelligence -based human–computer  system that 
supports decision -making activities based on the principles of management science, op-
erational research, simulation, and behavioral science and uses computer technology, sim-
ulation, a nd information technology as a means to address semi -structured decision -mak-
ing problems. The system is able to provide the decision maker with the necessary data 
and background to help clarify the objectives of the decision, to carry out problem identi-
fication, to build or modify decision models, and to consider different alternatives [128]. 
Various options can be evaluated and analyzed, compared, and judged through human –
computer interaction functions, providing the necessary support for correct decision mak-
ing [129,130] . 
Stamatescu et al. [131] described the development of a decision support system (DSS) 
for low-voltage networks incorporating renewable energy sources (photovoltaic panels 
and wind turbines), with the aim of achieving energy balance in pilo t micro-grids, reduc-
ing network energy consumption, and lowering operating costs. However, during opera-
tion, the method only considers the qualitative benefit of the energy provided by the mi-
cro-grid subsystem, rather than the exact value provided by the g overnment, which may 
lead to small fluctuations in the experimental results. Rinaldi et al. [132] proposed a cor-
rective maintenance decision model, which can restore components to a good state and 
restore reliability values to the initial state. Figure 11 shows the workflow diagram of the 
model. Aiming at minimizing maintenance costs, Nguyen et al. [133] proposed a single 
maintenance plan and a group maintenance plan for offshore wind energy systems. The 
proposed method takes into account system reliability , weather conditions, maintenance 
time, generation losses during maintenance, location of offshore wind systems, and other 
parameters neglected in existing studies, which improves the accuracy of the method. Alt-
hough the method reduces the cost of operatin g and maintaining offshore wind energy, 
it is only used in some parts of Taiwan and has not been tested in other regions.  
 
Figure 11. Working flow chart of corrective maintenance decision model [132]. 
Effective O&M aims to maximize economic efficiency. While tariffs are commonly 
used to calculate the profit or cost of electricity for wind farms, when they are used as 
evaluation metrics in decision support models, they are mainly used to calculate the pr o-
duction loss due to wind turbine downtime. Dinwoodie et al. [134] mentioned two 
Figure 11. Working ﬂow chart of corrective maintenance decision model [132].
Effective O&M aims to maximize economic efﬁciency. While tariffs are commonly
used to calculate the proﬁt or cost of electricity for wind farms, when they are used as
evaluation metrics in decision support models, they are mainly used to calculate the
production loss due to wind turbine downtime. Dinwoodie et al. [ 134] mentioned two
methods for calculating production losses. The basic approach is to use the product of the
rated power of the wind turbine as the capacity factor and downtime as the inﬂuencing
factor. Another more precise approach is to use a time series of wind speeds to create
a function and to determine the loss from this function curve. However, the literature
does not take into account the cost of employing staff and the replacement of parts for
wind turbines. Ju et al. [ 135] proposed a price-based demand–response virtual power
plant and constructed a risk-averse model based on a conditional value-at-risk approach
and robust optimization theory, considering the operational risks of wind power plants
and photovoltaic power generation. However, experimental data show that the system
is not suitable for simple scheduling scenarios where decision makers must fully account
for uncertainty in the factors and require improved prediction accuracy. Qin et al. [ 136]
proposed a new framework for wind farm resilience modeling to simulate how different
types of disturbances can lead to damage and failure of wind farm systems and subsystems,
as well as the associated direct and indirect consequences, to support optimization of asset
integrity management decisions. Relevant performance metrics for wind farms, such as
expected values for downtime and adequate inventory of essential spare parts, are easily
quantiﬁed within this framework. However, in terms of maintenance regime selection,
performing multiple condition substitutions to target different failure modes can achieve
expected production performance above current values. Benalcazar et al. [ 137] provided a
framework capable of identifying the optimal component size and determining the optimal
generation schedule for an autonomous hybrid energy system, based on the formulation
implementation of an optimization model with a linear programming approach and taking
into account the meteorological and economic parameters of the experimental area. The
techno-economic feasibility of hybrid energy system projects in remote areas of Ecuador
was addressed. The framework reduced investment costs more effectively than Qin’s
cost results. Although the difference between construction and production costs is not
signiﬁcant, Benalcazar’s model is clearly superior in terms of maintenance and recovery
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 17 of 35
costs at a later stage. The comparison is shown in Figure 12. However, the model does
not consider other techno-economic factors, such as payment and tariff methods, taxes,
distribution costs, and energy saving methods, and thus has signiﬁcant limitations.
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  17 of 35 
 
 methods for calculating production losses. The basic approach is to use the product of the 
rated power of the wind turbine as the capacity factor and downtime as the influenci ng 
factor. Another more precise approach is to use a time series of wind speeds to create a 
function and to determine the loss from this function curve. However, the literature does 
not take into account the cost of employing staff and the replacement of p arts for wind 
turbines. Ju et al. [135] proposed a price -based demand –response virtual power plant and 
constructed a risk -averse model based on a conditional value -at-risk approach and robust 
optimization theory, considering the operational risks of wind p ower plants and photo-
voltaic power generation. However, experimental data show that the system is not suita-
ble for simple scheduling scenarios where decision makers must fully account for uncer-
tainty in the factors and require improved prediction accuracy.  Qin et al. [136] proposed 
a new framework for wind farm resilience modeling to simulate how different types of 
disturbances can lead to damage and failure of wind farm systems and subsystems, as 
well as the associated direct and indirect consequences, to support optimization of asset 
integrity management decisions. Relevant performance metrics for wind farms, such as 
expected values for downtime and adequate inventory of essential spare parts, are easily 
quantified within this framework. However, in terms of maintenance regime selection, 
performing multiple condition substitutions to target different failure modes can achieve 
expected production performance above current values. Benalcazar et al. [137] provided 
a framework capable of identifying the optimal  component size and determining the op-
timal generation schedule for an autonomous hybrid energy system, based on the formu-
lation implementation of an optimization model with a linear programming approach and 
taking into account the meteorological and econo mic parameters of the experimental area. 
The techno -economic feasibility of hybrid energy system projects in remote areas of Ecua-
dor was addressed. The framework reduced investment costs more effectively than Qin ’s 
cost results. Although the difference bet ween construction and production costs is not sig-
nificant, Benalcazar ’s model is clearly superior in terms of maintenance and recovery costs 
at a later stage. The comparison is shown in Figure 12. However, the model does not con-
sider other techno -economic factors, such as payment and tariff methods, taxes, distribu-
tion costs, and energy saving methods, and thus has significant limitations.  
 
Figure 12. Comparison of cost projections between two different models.  
All decision support models should be able to  integrate and evaluate different O&M 
scenarios. Most decision support models operate in a complex environment, and opera-
tors using the models must already have an in -depth understanding of how to use them 
Figure 12. Comparison of cost projections between two different models.
All decision support models should be able to integrate and evaluate different O&M
scenarios. Most decision support models operate in a complex environment, and op-
erators using the models must already have an in-depth understanding of how to use
them and be familiar with the reasons that affect their scheduling. There is currently no
operational model that optimizes maintenance policies without input from operators or
researchers. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a decision support model that can
be operated without the need to have experience in wind energy O&M. Over the past
decade, wind turbine decision support models have become a mature research ﬁeld and
are gradually being applied to manage and operate the wind power industry. These mod-
els not only contribute to the sustainable development of the wind power industry but
also help wind power plant managers and operators to optimize the performance and
efﬁciency of wind turbines. Verhelst et al. [138] developed corrosion measurement data
visualization software that identiﬁes standards for effective structural corrosion analy-
sis as a scalable, SCADA-compatible, secure, and network-accessible tool, showing that
SCADA-compatible visualization software tools are possible and can signiﬁcantly reduce
the technical and experiential requirements for O&M service personnel. However, since
it is difﬁcult to quantify the corrosion process theoretically, both the quantity and quality
of data are extremely important, which also requires relevant organizations to raise risk
awareness and collect adequate data in a timely manner. Petrichenko et al. [ 139] established
a high-resolution methodology for measuring economic performance through a proposed
index under different development scenarios of renewable energy diffusion and different
network conﬁgurations by comparing the proﬁtability of two business models: individual
distributed consumption and energy communities; the latter proved to be a more proﬁtable
framework. However, the initial investment in energy communities is huge and requires
governments and investors to improve their decision-making capabilities. Dinçer et al. [ 140]
developed a multi-criteria decision-making approach to evaluate energy technology in-
vestment options based on a multi-stage weighting ratio analysis to determine the relative
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 18 of 35
importance of factors and designed ﬁve evaluation criteria: maintenance frequency, ease
of installation, environmental adaptability, transmission technology, and cost efﬁciency.
The results show that cost efﬁciency is the most important factor in the effectiveness of
energy investments and that investment decision makers should focus on this element.
However, there are no actual data to conﬁrm the results obtained using this method, so
their applicability is questionable.
The maintenance and operation of wind turbines is costly and uncertain, and decision
support systems can assist O&M personnel in identifying, classifying, and predicting
failures or damage to wind turbines [ 141]. In the current technical research on decision
support systems, there are several problems.
 Data acquisition
Decision-support-system-based wind power intelligent O&M technology relies on the
accuracy and timeliness of equipment data, while current data collection and transmission
equipment has a relatively high failure rate and low data quality. Thus, more reliable data
collection and transmission equipment are needed to improve the accuracy and timeliness
of data.
 Data processing
Data derived from different devices, formats, and processing methods can vary, lead-
ing to quality, temporal, and processing efﬁciency issues. In addition, data processing
requires sufﬁcient computing power and storage capacity. Therefore, new technical means
for data processing and integration need to be explored. Among them, artiﬁcial intelligence
technology is currently the most promising means.
 Intelligent diagnosis
Machine learning is a common intelligent diagnostic technique used today. The
accuracy and reliability of this technique depends on the model. Therefore, models with
high accuracy need to be developed. Some new models, such as deep learning models and
decision tree models, are possible solutions to this problem.
 Maintenance forecasting
Maintenance prediction is an important element of decision-support-system-based
technology. Existing maintenance prediction methods are limited by historical data and
do not make good use of advanced algorithms and data from new energy monitoring
devices. These methods also do not use big data and have very limited accuracy in fault
prediction. The use of smarter algorithms, combined with big data means, can achieve
more convincing results.
In response to the above problems, several improvement methods can be proposed,
as follows. First, optimize data collection and transmission equipment to improve data
accuracy and timeliness. Second, apply artiﬁcial intelligence technology and data mining
technology to improve the quality and efﬁciency of data processing. Third, explore new
algorithm models, such as deep learning models and decision tree models, to improve
the accuracy of intelligent diagnosis. Fourth, use big data means to combine intelligent
algorithm models and machine learning methods for maintenance prediction to improve
the prediction effect. Meanwhile, multiple data sources can be combined to improve the ac-
curacy of fault prediction [ 142]. In conclusion, the research on wind power intelligent O&M
technology based on decision support systems needs to be improved to solve the existing
problems and to provide better technical support for efﬁcient and stable development of
the wind power industry.
4.2. Fault Diagnosis Models
Early detection and diagnosis of wind turbine failures is essential for the application
of possible maintenance and control strategies to avoid catastrophic events [ 143]. Never-
theless, turbines’ complex and large-scale structures, as well as their operation in remote
locations with harsh environmental conditions and highly variable random loads, make
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 19 of 35
the occurrence of faults inevitable. Therefore, the use of algorithms that can continuously
monitor and diagnose potential faults and mitigate their effects before they become failures
can signiﬁcantly improve wind turbine fault mitigation [144].
In the study of wind energy bearing fault diagnosis models, Wang et al. [ 145] proposed
the instantaneous frequency selection strategy guided by the l-kurtosis ﬂuctuation spectrum
(LFS) and the weight coefﬁcient determination strategy guided by the cuckoo search
algorithm (CSA) through the simulation of fault signals. It was veriﬁed that the optimized
adaptive chirp mode decomposition (OACMD) method has outstanding advantages in
defect detection in wind turbine bearings. However, this method is less efﬁcient and
cannot detect multiple sources of damage in wind turbine bearings under ﬂuctuating speed
conditions. Guo et al. [ 146] used the KS method to study the temperature–power dispersion
distribution of gears of similar units and convolutional neural networks to construct a
prediction model for bearing over temperature, which can detect abnormalities of the
turbine in advance and reﬂect the ﬂuctuation of turbine parameters well; however, for
short-term fault warning, this approach needs to be remodeled based on historical data.
Zhao et al. [ 147] combined Gaussian kernel support vector machines with polynomial
kernel support vector machines and proposed a fault diagnosis method based on stochastic
subspace identiﬁcation (SSI) and multicore support vector machines (MSVMs) to accurately
identify wind turbine bearing faults. However, this method only tests for a single fault
signal and requires more in-depth analysis of the causes of multiple faults occurring
simultaneously. Gu et al. [ 148] proposed two models based on different principles: an
adaptive SR algorithm model based on quantum particle swarm optimization (QPSO) and
a wind energy bearing fault diagnosis model based on frequency information exchange
(FIE) combined with frequency conversion. However, these methods have a large data
bias in the frequency exchange process, and the experimental results are not accurate.
Liu et al. [ 149] validated a principle of testing for bearing temperature anomalies based
on space–time fusion decisions. The principle uses the analytic hierarchy process (AHP)
entropy method to model the temperature rise in a bearing based on historical inspection
data uses the temperature signal to analyze the temperature characteristics of the bearing at
different time and space distributions. After comparing the actual temperature rise with the
predicted temperature rise, a diagnosis of the abnormalities in the bearing can be achieved.
This can reduce the false positive rate of diagnoses of abnormal temperature rises in the
bearing and has a strong early warning capability.
In the area of fault diagnosis models for wind energy gearboxes, Xu et al. [ 150] pro-
posed an improved hybrid attention module using a multi-scale convolutional neural
network as a feature learning model, in which a multi-label classiﬁer outputting single or
multiple labels was used to identify single or compound faults. The method was veriﬁed to
have higher accuracy and stability than other transmission compound fault diagnosis mod-
els for two transmission data sets; the diagnosis process is shown in Figure 13. However,
the method cannot be applied to early fault diagnosis. Mao et al. [ 151] effectively identiﬁed
structural and nonstructural defects by combining fused domain adaptive convolutional
neural networks (FDACNNs) with vibration signals and introducing adversarial networks
to achieve state identiﬁcation of structural and nonstructural defects in the unlabeled target
domain. Chen et al. [ 152] proposed an intelligent fault diagnosis model for wind energy
gear boxes, combining CNN and discrete wavelet transform. The deep training forward
pass rule is used to train a CNN with a deep hierarchical structure, constructed by alternat-
ing convolutional layers and subsampling layer by layer to transform the input low-level
features into high-level features. The parameters of the CNN are ﬁne-tuned through a
back-propagation process to establish a mapping between the feature space and the fault
space. However, the system parameters and structural choices of the proposed model are
not discussed in detail, leading to insufﬁcient generality. Zhao et al. [ 153] developed a
variant of the deep residual network, namely, a dynamic weighted wavelet coefﬁcient, to
improve model diagnostic performance. Compared with CNN- and DRN-based methods,
the developed method improves the average training accuracy by 11.43% and 10.60% and
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 20 of 35
by 3.74% and 3.87%, respectively, in terms of test accuracy. However, this method is only
suitable for general data-driven fault diagnosis with small changes and cannot accurately
diagnose faults with large data ﬂuctuations. Zhang et al. [ 154] proposed a hybrid improved
residual network-based wind turbine gearbox fault diagnosis method in conjunction with
the above research. The method implemented a wavelet transform on the initial signal,
highlighting the characteristics of the wavelet coefﬁcients. The proposed method was then
validated with a simulated data set from a drive train diagnostic simulator (DDS) and
actual measurement data from a wind farm. Compared with the literature [ 152–154], the
accuracy of the experimental results obtained using the HA-ResNet method under the DDS
simulated data was signiﬁcantly higher than that of other methods; the mean comparison
of the experimental results is shown in Table 3. However, the use of raw data for fault
diagnosis in the time domain is not recommended due to the time-shifted nature of raw
vibration signals.
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  21 of 35 
 
 reasons behind it and proved that failures could be predicted in advance. However, due 
to flaws in the machine learning experimental setup, the experimental results over -relied 
on the reliability of the data set. Marti -Puig et al. [158] proposed a method of using a single 
hidden-layer feed -forward neural network (SLFN) to establish a wind turbine health sta-
tus monitoring and evaluation model, including using the remaining variables of the sys-
tem or subsystem to predict the target vari able, calculating the error deviation from the 
actual target variable, and finally comparing the high error value with the alarm event 
selection of the system. The performance of the model was validated. Table 4 compares 
the differences between the model s ignals selected by Leahy et al. and Marti -Puig et al. 
Although the latter selected fewer signals than the former, these signals show the operat-
ing environment of the wind turbine and can adequately represent the operating param-
eters during operation, thus greatly improving the credibility of condition monitoring. 
Though it is robust to mislabeled data that may be introduced during the training phase, 
fault locations cannot be accurately predicted.  
Table 3. Comparison of HA -ResNet results with other methods under DDS simulated data [152–154]. 
Method  Raw Signals  Wavelet Coefficients  
 CNN  WDCNN  CNN  WDCNN  ResNet  HA-ResNet  
Accuracy  (%) 87.13 ± 2.57  94.13 ± 1.39  95.43 ± 1.08  93.14 ± 0.61  96.50 ± 1.26  98.79 ± 0.34 
 
Figure 13. Fault diagnosis process based on CSAM -MSCNN [150]. 
Table 4. Comparison of selected signals from the Leahy et al. and the Marti -Puig et al. [157,158] . 
Signals of Leahy  Description  Signals of Marti -Puig  Description  
az Yaw system faults  Power  Generator output power  
ba Backup battery system 
faults  Wind speed  Average wind speed in 30 s  
bk Braking system faults  Rotor speed  Generator rotor speed  
fc Frequency Converter faults  Winding temperature  Generator winding temperature  
Figure 13. Fault diagnosis process based on CSAM-MSCNN [150].
Table 3. Comparison of HA-ResNet results with other methods under DDS simulated data [ 152–154].
Method Raw Signals Wavelet Coefﬁcients
CNN WDCNN CNN WDCNN ResNet HA-ResNet
Accuracy (%) 87.13 2.57 94.13 1.39 95.43 1.08 93.14 0.61 96.50 1.26 98.79 0.34
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 21 of 35
In terms of overall fault diagnosis models for wind turbines, most scholars use the
SCADA data set as a modeling reference. Liu et al. [ 155] developed an ambient temperature
regression prediction model for wind turbine components using the limiting gradient
boosting algorithm, which can be used to calculate the residuals between the predicted and
actual values. The exponential weighted moving average (EWMA) control chart principle
was used to monitor the variation trend of the residual difference. However, wind turbines
are typically nonlinear multi-coupled systems, where the relationships between different
faults are complex and the coupling is strong, so that the entire fault of a wind turbine
cannot be accurately predicted. Watson et al. [ 156] used existing Supervisory Control
and Data Acquisition (SCADA) data collected for a brand new wind turbine to model
operational behavior and to construct a Markov space to be used as a reference space. The
fault diagnosis of a wind turbine was performed by comparing the wind turbine behavior
predicted by the trained model with the reference space and analyzing the distribution
and correlation of the wind turbine SCADA data. However, the fault model was combined
with the acoustic signal, which reduced the success rate of fault detection. Leahy et al. [ 157]
established an accurate training database by automatically identifying historical wind
turbine alarm sequences and using rule sets to infer wind turbine downtime and the
reasons behind it and proved that failures could be predicted in advance. However, due to
ﬂaws in the machine learning experimental setup, the experimental results over-relied on
the reliability of the data set. Marti-Puig et al. [ 158] proposed a method of using a single
hidden-layer feed-forward neural network (SLFN) to establish a wind turbine health status
monitoring and evaluation model, including using the remaining variables of the system
or subsystem to predict the target variable, calculating the error deviation from the actual
target variable, and ﬁnally comparing the high error value with the alarm event selection of
the system. The performance of the model was validated. Table 4 compares the differences
between the model signals selected by Leahy et al. and Marti-Puig et al. Although the latter
selected fewer signals than the former, these signals show the operating environment of
the wind turbine and can adequately represent the operating parameters during operation,
thus greatly improving the credibility of condition monitoring. Though it is robust to
mislabeled data that may be introduced during the training phase, fault locations cannot
be accurately predicted.
Table 4. Comparison of selected signals from the Leahy et al. and the Marti-Puig et al. [157,158].
Signals of Leahy Description Signals of Marti-Puig Description
az Yaw system faults Power Generator output power
ba Backup battery system faults Wind speed Average wind speed in 30 s
bk Braking system faults Rotor speed Generator rotor speed
fc Frequency Converter faults Winding temperature Generator winding temperature
gb Gearbox faults Drive-end bearing temperatureGenerator drive-end bearing
temperature
gn Generator faultsNon-drive-end bearing
temperatureGenerator non-drive-end bearing
temperature
mi Miscellaneous Nacelle temperature Temperature inside the nacelle
pt Pitch system faults
to Tower faults
Fault diagnosis and fault-tolerant control schemes for wind turbines are critical to
their reliability, availability, and cost-effectiveness. However, there remain problems in the
current research. For example, the existing fault diagnosis models are mostly based on
experience or rules and cannot accommodate adaptive learning and or accurately diagnose
newly appearing faults. In addition, there are many kinds of wind power equipment, and
various types of faults continually appear, which requires a large amount of data support
and complex algorithms to build fault diagnosis models. The fault diagnosis process must
involve the comprehensive analysis of many factors, including the structure and operation
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 22 of 35
status of the wind turbine itself, the wind resource situation, and the qualiﬁcations of the
O&M personnel.
Therefore, more machine learning algorithms should be used to learn historical data
to improve the accuracy and adaptability of the model, to carry out large-scale and multi-
dimensional data collection, to effectively analyze and process data to explore potential
correlations in order to improve the prediction accuracy of the model, and to adopt open
data to improve the sharing and accessibility of data and open data channels for various
application scenarios.
4.3. Life-Cycle Costs
The life cycle of a wind energy project can be subdivided into economic life cycle,
construction life cycle, and natural life cycle. The economic service life is deﬁned as the
service life with the lowest average cost. The design life is the period of time that a wind
farm is designed to be used effectively, without loss of use. Natural life is the actual time a
wind farm is in use under natural operation [ 159]. Life-cycle analysis methods are proposed
and widely used in the feasibility analysis of wind energy projects to reﬂect the details
of the entire life-cycle process of a product. Researchers have analyzed the economics of
wind energy and provided a series of literature reviews. These reviews provide a positive
reference for cost modelling, revenue analysis, and structural optimization at various stages
of wind energy development and implementation [160].
With regard to the life-cycle components of wind energy projects, the main components
are the planning and design stage, the construction stage, the O&M stage, and the closure
stage. Figure 14 shows the workﬂow for the planning and design phase of a wind energy
project. The main tasks of the planning and design phase include wind resource assessment,
site selection and land planning, investment and ﬁnancing, engineering feasibility studies,
and environmental impact assessments [ 161,162]. By 2020, the global average unit capacity
of new wind turbines had increased to more than 2.5 MW onshore, and the annual aggregate
unit capacity of new wind turbines had increased to more than 7 MW offshore [ 163,164].
Once the preliminary design is completed, researchers carry out a feasibility analysis of
the project, which includes an analysis of the need for the project to be built, a physical
feasibility analysis, and an economic analysis. Finally, project and pre-production activities
are carried out with regard to ecological restoration, project assurance, base reserves, and
pre-production. Major tasks in the construction phase are to organize and plan construction,
to construct civil bases, to erect pylons, to install electrical and control systems, and to
simulate operation and commissioning [ 165]. The process of operating and maintaining
a wind farm throughout its life cycle is referred to as the O&M phase. Rationalizing
production, managing equipment, carrying out O&M, and ensuring the generation and
stable operation of the wind farm are the main tasks in this phase [ 166]. For wind farms, the
O&M phase is a long cycle with a large number of uncertainties, and the costs corresponding
to this phase include the costs of O&M and the costs of land lease [ 167]. Currently, wind
farm operations and maintenance are carried out jointly by wind turbine manufacturers
and operators. The closure phase may include preparation for closure, disassembly of
equipment, cleaning and recycling of the site, disposal of recyclable waste, and approval of
the works. Most life-cycle analyses only consider full decommissioning, including complete
dismantling and site clearance. Figure 15 shows the decomposition structure of the wind
farm decommissioning work [168].
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  23 of 35 
 
 the generation and stable operation of the wind farm are the  main tasks in this phase [166]. 
For wind farms, the O&M phase is a long cycle with a large number of uncertainties, and 
the costs corresponding to this phase include the costs of O&M and the costs of land lease 
[167]. Currently, wind farm operations and m aintenance are carried out jointly by wind 
turbine manufacturers and operators. The closure phase may include preparation for clo-
sure, disassembly of equipment, cleaning and recycling of the site, disposal of recyclable 
waste, and approval of the works. Mo st life-cycle analyses only consider full decommis-
sioning, including complete dismantling and site clearance. Figure 15 shows the decom-
position structure of the wind farm decommissioning work [168]. 
 
Figure 14. Workflow of wind energy project planning and  design stage [161]. 
 
Figure 15. Decommissioning workflow of wind farms [168]. 
With regard to the methods of economic evaluation of wind energy and the selection 
of evaluation indicators, Mahmud et al. [169] developed a life -cycle inventory considering 
all inputs and outputs to assess and compare the environmental impacts of solar PV and 
thermal systems on 16 impact indicators and performed uncertainty and sensitivity anal-
yses for both frameworks. Therefore, the methodology can be analogized in the life -cycle 
assessment of wind power systems to determine the level of environmental impact of 
wind power projects and to evaluate the performance of different wind turbine models. 
Yildiz et al. [170] improved the maintenance and end -of-life steps in the life -cycle assess-
ment of barge -based floating wind turbines by adding recycling and mechanical incinera-
tion processes to the life -cycle process to reduce their environmental impact. However, 
this study failed to account for some calculable costs and showed low accu racy. Zhou et 
al. [171] used AHP to assess the life -cycle risk of distributed wind plants, providing a per-
spective on future research directions for distributed wind. However, the AHP is too sim-
plistic for the current evaluation method, and another, more a ccurate method may be used 
to assess the risk impact. To facilitate comparison with other studies, Kouloumpis et al. 
[172] conducted a life -cycle assessment of small vertical axis wind turbines using a range 
of assumed capacity factors. They also used the Conditional Maximum Likelihood impact 
assessment methodology to assess 11 environmental impact categories. The results 
showed that most of the impacts were attributed to support infrastructure. However, since 
environmental performance is very sensitive to variations in capacity factors, the im-
portance of wind project siting should be emphasized. Typically, NPV (net present value), 
PVC (present value cost), IRR (internal rate of return), LCOE (levelized cost of electricity), 
PBP (payback period), ROI (return  on investment), ROE (rate of return on common stock-
holders’ equity), and NAV (net annual value) are widely used in the process of selecting 
indicators to evaluate wind energy [161]. These indicators reflect the viability of the dif-
ferent directions of pro ject investment and are commonly used for the economic assess-
ment of wind energy projects [173]. PVC and ROI are indicators of absolute value. They 
can only represent the cash value of a given amount of investment over a given period of 
time. The differenc e between investment and generation capacity can be reflected by other 
relevant indicators, such as LOCE, IRR, PBP , and NPV [174]. PBP increases project risk by 
Figure 14. Workﬂow of wind energy project planning and design stage [161].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 23 of 35
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  23 of 35 
 
 the generation and stable operation of the wind farm are the  main tasks in this phase [166]. 
For wind farms, the O&M phase is a long cycle with a large number of uncertainties, and 
the costs corresponding to this phase include the costs of O&M and the costs of land lease 
[167]. Currently, wind farm operations and m aintenance are carried out jointly by wind 
turbine manufacturers and operators. The closure phase may include preparation for clo-
sure, disassembly of equipment, cleaning and recycling of the site, disposal of recyclable 
waste, and approval of the works. Mo st life-cycle analyses only consider full decommis-
sioning, including complete dismantling and site clearance. Figure 15 shows the decom-
position structure of the wind farm decommissioning work [168]. 
 
Figure 14. Workflow of wind energy project planning and  design stage [161]. 
 
Figure 15. Decommissioning workflow of wind farms [168]. 
With regard to the methods of economic evaluation of wind energy and the selection 
of evaluation indicators, Mahmud et al. [169] developed a life -cycle inventory considering 
all inputs and outputs to assess and compare the environmental impacts of solar PV and 
thermal systems on 16 impact indicators and performed uncertainty and sensitivity anal-
yses for both frameworks. Therefore, the methodology can be analogized in the life -cycle 
assessment of wind power systems to determine the level of environmental impact of 
wind power projects and to evaluate the performance of different wind turbine models. 
Yildiz et al. [170] improved the maintenance and end -of-life steps in the life -cycle assess-
ment of barge -based floating wind turbines by adding recycling and mechanical incinera-
tion processes to the life -cycle process to reduce their environmental impact. However, 
this study failed to account for some calculable costs and showed low accu racy. Zhou et 
al. [171] used AHP to assess the life -cycle risk of distributed wind plants, providing a per-
spective on future research directions for distributed wind. However, the AHP is too sim-
plistic for the current evaluation method, and another, more a ccurate method may be used 
to assess the risk impact. To facilitate comparison with other studies, Kouloumpis et al. 
[172] conducted a life -cycle assessment of small vertical axis wind turbines using a range 
of assumed capacity factors. They also used the Conditional Maximum Likelihood impact 
assessment methodology to assess 11 environmental impact categories. The results 
showed that most of the impacts were attributed to support infrastructure. However, since 
environmental performance is very sensitive to variations in capacity factors, the im-
portance of wind project siting should be emphasized. Typically, NPV (net present value), 
PVC (present value cost), IRR (internal rate of return), LCOE (levelized cost of electricity), 
PBP (payback period), ROI (return  on investment), ROE (rate of return on common stock-
holders’ equity), and NAV (net annual value) are widely used in the process of selecting 
indicators to evaluate wind energy [161]. These indicators reflect the viability of the dif-
ferent directions of pro ject investment and are commonly used for the economic assess-
ment of wind energy projects [173]. PVC and ROI are indicators of absolute value. They 
can only represent the cash value of a given amount of investment over a given period of 
time. The differenc e between investment and generation capacity can be reflected by other 
relevant indicators, such as LOCE, IRR, PBP , and NPV [174]. PBP increases project risk by 
Figure 15. Decommissioning workﬂow of wind farms [168].
With regard to the methods of economic evaluation of wind energy and the selection
of evaluation indicators, Mahmud et al. [ 169] developed a life-cycle inventory considering
all inputs and outputs to assess and compare the environmental impacts of solar PV
and thermal systems on 16 impact indicators and performed uncertainty and sensitivity
analyses for both frameworks. Therefore, the methodology can be analogized in the life-
cycle assessment of wind power systems to determine the level of environmental impact of
wind power projects and to evaluate the performance of different wind turbine models.
Yildiz et al. [ 170] improved the maintenance and end-of-life steps in the life-cycle assessment
of barge-based ﬂoating wind turbines by adding recycling and mechanical incineration
processes to the life-cycle process to reduce their environmental impact. However, this
study failed to account for some calculable costs and showed low accuracy. Zhou et al. [ 171]
used AHP to assess the life-cycle risk of distributed wind plants, providing a perspective on
future research directions for distributed wind. However, the AHP is too simplistic for the
current evaluation method, and another, more accurate method may be used to assess the
risk impact. To facilitate comparison with other studies, Kouloumpis et al. [ 172] conducted
a life-cycle assessment of small vertical axis wind turbines using a range of assumed
capacity factors. They also used the Conditional Maximum Likelihood impact assessment
methodology to assess 11 environmental impact categories. The results showed that most
of the impacts were attributed to support infrastructure. However, since environmental
performance is very sensitive to variations in capacity factors, the importance of wind
project siting should be emphasized. Typically, NPV (net present value), PVC (present
value cost), IRR (internal rate of return), LCOE (levelized cost of electricity), PBP (payback
period), ROI (return on investment), ROE (rate of return on common stockholders’ equity),
and NAV (net annual value) are widely used in the process of selecting indicators to
evaluate wind energy [ 161]. These indicators reﬂect the viability of the different directions
of project investment and are commonly used for the economic assessment of wind energy
projects [ 173]. PVC and ROI are indicators of absolute value. They can only represent the
cash value of a given amount of investment over a given period of time. The difference
between investment and generation capacity can be reﬂected by other relevant indicators,
such as LOCE, IRR, PBP , and NPV [ 174]. PBP increases project risk by allocating the
investment over the payback period and does not take into account post-payback cash
ﬂows. NPV , PBP , PVC, ROI, and IRR are difﬁcult to use to benchmark different regions,
types, and levels of technology, and it is challenging to forecast the cash ﬂows under ﬂexible
policies [ 175]. By comparison, LCOE removes the limitations of various regions, types,
and sizes for studying the investment merits of a project, allowing for further analysis of
the main factors affecting the cost of electricity generation, as well as accurate horizontal
comparisons and choices between diverse projects [ 176]. The LCOE has become a common
economic indicator to assess the overall competitiveness of wind energy projects. In
addition, the economic analysis of certain types of projects often uses a more inclusive
valuation approach, which combines PBP , IRR, and NPV [177].
In the ﬁeld of life-cycle cost modelling for wind energy projects, there are many un-
certainties in the economic analysis process, leading to a large gap in the results of the
analysis and the actual cost of the project. Therefore, scientists have proposed various
approaches to uncertainty analysis and prediction algorithms to quantify impacts and
to estimate uncertainty factors. Tsvetkova et al. [ 178] classiﬁed the sensitivity analysis
output variables, methods, applications, and software, highlighting the problems with this
type of analysis. Currently applied computational models are expensive, and an effective
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 24 of 35
sensitivity computational model is urgently needed in the ﬁeld. Leite et al. [ 179] suggested
that energy prices, production capacity factors, and capital operating costs are the most
critical variables affecting economic viability. They used a global sensitivity model to
identify the most sensitive parameters affecting the results of economic analysis; however,
the model did not establish the corresponding life-cycle model according to the key vari-
ables. An et al. [180] designed and discussed a four-level life-cycle evaluation platform
for wind turbines based on IoT architecture, developed a model based on IMPACT 2002+,
and selected energy recovery time as an important evaluation index for wind turbines; the
evaluation model is shown in Figure 16. The platform is oriented toward wind turbines,
with good scalability and credibility. However, no reasonable and effective tests have been
conducted to obtain valid experimental data. Yuan et al. [181] improved the LCOE model
as a life-cycle costing method in three ways. They considered the quantiﬁcation of external
costs, expanded the composition of internal costs, and discounted electricity generation
to provide a quantitative reference for electricity production and consumption decisions.
However, the method is only applicable to the general domestic environment in China
and has not been tested in other countries and thus is not universally applicable [ 182].
Erfani et al. [ 183] proposed a risk assessment model for wind energy investment projects,
considering expert knowledge and background, based on the risk analysis of improved
fuzzy group decision making. The authors established a comprehensive model of risk
assessment and cost estimation on this basis, proving that the risk management process
has a great impact on investment proﬁtability. However, all cash ﬂow parameters in this
model are modeled using the triangle assumption, and the interplay and correlation risk
among cash ﬂow parameters is not investigated. Liu et al. [ 184] developed a new algorithm,
called the Cuckoo Search Algorithm with Steepest Descent, based on the improved cuckoo
search algorithm and optimizing the weights; it showed higher accuracy and stability in
predicting wind speed. However, this method is not sufﬁciently accurate to predict the
upper limit of the wind farm alarm threshold in practical applications. Based on a long
short-term memory (LSTM) network and a gray wolf optimizer (GWO) disaggregation
technique, Altan et al. [ 185] developed a new hybrid WSF (Wind Speed Forecasting) model.
The model was able to accurately reﬂect the nonlinear properties of the WSTS (wind speed
time series). However, it is more cumbersome and less accurate in its predictions. A new
and different hybrid wind speed prediction system based on the combination of two model
frameworks, linear and nonlinear, was proposed by Huang et al. [ 186]. It included the
use of linear ARMA (auto regressive and moving average) to catch the underlying linear
mode in the data, as well as CS-optimized BPNN (back propagation neural networks) to
catch the underlying nonlinear mode in the data. However, other linear and nonlinear
models were not considered in the study. Ma et al. [ 187] combined hierarchical analysis,
network analysis, and fuzzy comprehensive evaluation methods to establish a hybrid
hierarchical structure model and combined this with a fuzzy comprehensive evaluation
method to determine the ﬁnal risk level. The model fully considered the inﬂuence of
various disaster factors and was more scientiﬁc and accurate than the previous evaluation
methods. However, the model used the AHP-fuzzy method, which is too simplistic and less
convincing under the depth of current research. Dai et al. [ 188] proposed a self-attentive
neural network (SANN) model based on attention for online learning, which could capture
temporal relationships more efﬁciently with a customized attention module; this online
learning algorithm could adapt to weather, operational, and environmental changes to
improve prediction accuracy. The SANN model is more cost effective than existing models.
A comparison of the results between different models is shown in Table 5.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 25 of 35
Sustainability 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW  25 of 35 
 
 analysis, network analysis, and fuzzy comprehensive evaluation methods to establish a 
hybrid hierarchical structure model and combined this with a fuzzy comprehensive eval-
uation method to determine the final risk level. The model fully consider ed the influence 
of various disaster factors and was more scientific and accurate than the previous evalua-
tion methods. However, the model used the AHP -fuzzy method, which is too simplistic 
and less convincing under the depth of current research. Dai et al . [188] proposed a self -
attentive neural network (SANN) model based on attention for online learning, which 
could capture temporal relationships more efficiently with a customized attention mod-
ule; this online learning algorithm could adapt to weather, ope rational, and environmen-
tal changes to improve prediction accuracy. The SANN model is more cost effective than 
existing models. A comparison of the results between different models is shown in Table 
5. 
Table 5. Test results of SANN model compared with exis ting models.  
Method  MAE (MW)  MAPE (%)  RMSE (MW)  R2 Reference  
Persistence  3.53 0.76 5.95 0.991  Lledó . [189]  
LSTM  2.83 0.71 4.06 0.995  Li. [190]  
CNN -LSTM  3.31 0.72 5.07 0.992  Wu. [191]  
AGRU  2.12 0.46 3.71 0.996  Niu. [192]  
Bi-LSTM  2.56 0.55 4.03 0.995  Jaseena. [193]  
CNN  2.72 0.59 3.99 0.996  Zhang. [194]  
MLP  2.23 0.48 3.72 0.996  Khazaei. [195]  
TCN  2.26 0.49 3.72 0.996  Li. [196]  
SANN  2.22 0.48 3.68 0.996  Dai. [188]  
 
Figure 16. Life-cycle assessment model for wind turbines based on IMPACT 2002+ [180]. 
Li et al. [197] proposed an optimal planning approach for regional electricity -heat 
systems with data centers (DC -RIEHS) considering wind power uncertainty and using 
affine decision rules to hedge the uncertainty of wind power generation into an easy -to-
handle single -level mixed integer cone model. However, this study focused only on the 
Figure 16. Life-cycle assessment model for wind turbines based on IMPACT 2002+ [180].
Table 5. Test results of SANN model compared with existing models.
Method MAE (MW) MAPE (%) RMSE (MW) R2Reference
Persistence 3.53 0.76 5.95 0.991 Lled ó. [189]
LSTM 2.83 0.71 4.06 0.995 Li. [190]
CNN-LSTM 3.31 0.72 5.07 0.992 Wu. [191]
AGRU 2.12 0.46 3.71 0.996 Niu. [192]
Bi-LSTM 2.56 0.55 4.03 0.995 Jaseena. [193]
CNN 2.72 0.59 3.99 0.996 Zhang. [194]
MLP 2.23 0.48 3.72 0.996 Khazaei. [195]
TCN 2.26 0.49 3.72 0.996 Li. [196]
SANN 2.22 0.48 3.68 0.996 Dai. [188]
Li et al. [ 197] proposed an optimal planning approach for regional electricity-heat sys-
tems with data centers (DC-RIEHS) considering wind power uncertainty and using afﬁne
decision rules to hedge the uncertainty of wind power generation into an easy-to-handle
single-level mixed integer cone model. However, this study focused only on the granularity
modeling of individual data centers and the ﬂexible planning of energy systems in their
surrounding areas, without considering detailed energy networks. Alshamrani et al. [198]
proposed a transmission expansion planning model that considers the voltage stability
assessment of a grid with embedded wind farms under uncertainty conditions, which is
unique in that it incorporates the voltage stability margin (VSM) into the planning model.
The model is a two-tier model in which the ﬁrst tier minimizes the total investment and
operating cost minus the weighted VSM and the second tier evaluates the optimal expan-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 26 of 35
sion plan given by the VSM from the ﬁrst tier. However, the model is run without the
inclusion of transmission line conductors, which can increase the desired loading factor.
Maienza et al. [199] collected the latest data and parametric equations from databases and
literature to establish a life-cycle cost model for offshore ﬂoating wind farms, divided the
life-cycle cost into three parts—capital cost, O&M cost, and decommissioning cost—and
analyzed the differences between different types of ﬂoating platforms in terms of cost com-
ponents, transportation, and installation. Garcia-Teruel et al. [ 200] performed a life-cycle
assessment of an offshore ﬂoating wind farm using an advanced O&M model to quantify
the impact of environmental factors and compared the estimated characteristics of the
Spar case and the Semi-sub case, as shown in Table 6. The data prove the viability and
practicality of the proposed model.
Table 6. The assumed and estimated characteristics of the two case studies [200].
Characteristic Spar Case Study [201] Semi-Sub Case Study [202]
Water depth (m) 95–129 60–80
Distance to shore (km) 25 15
Turbine rating (MW) 6 9.5
Number of turbines 5 5
Turbine model SWT-6.0-120 v164-9.5
Substructure Spar Semi-submersible
Installation port Peterhead Dundee
O&M port Peterhead Aberdeen
Lifetime (years) 25 25
With the continuous development and application of intelligent technologies, research
on intelligent O&M technologies for wind power based on life-cycle costs has also seen
some progress [ 203,204]. This section provides an overview of the progress of life-cycle
cost-based research.
First, there is a lack of life-cycle cost considerations. Many studies on wind power in-
telligent O&M technologies do not consider the full life-cycle costs of wind farms, focusing
only on a single O&M cost or equipment maintenance cost. This one-sided considera-
tion can lead to excessive reductions in O&M costs, while causing higher losses in later
operations and maintenance. Second, there are insufﬁcient data processing and analysis ca-
pabilities. Wind power intelligent O&M technology requires the processing and analysis of
a large amount of data; however, most wind farms remain weak in this area, and thus, data
processing and analysis capabilities need to be further improved. This can lead to a decline
in O&M efﬁciency, which affects the safety and reliability of wind farms. Third, there is a
lack of an efﬁcient collaborative O&M mechanism. There is a large amount of O&M work
in wind farms; this requires cooperation among multiple O&M teams. However, there is
a lack of efﬁcient collaborative O&M mechanisms, which leads to poor cooperation and
information asymmetry in the O&M process, which reduces efﬁciency.
For the above problems, the following countermeasures are suggested.
1. Establishing a sound and universal whole life cost model requires in-depth research
and discussion for different application scenarios. By quantifying the costs and
beneﬁts of wind farms at different stages, a reasonable optimization of the economic
beneﬁts of the whole wind farm can be achieved [205].
2. It is necessary to strengthen data management and analysis capabilities by adopting ef-
ﬁcient data mining and analysis algorithms, as well as more scientiﬁc, reasonable, and
effective cost estimation methods; this will lead to fast and accurate data processing
and will improve cost estimation capabilities.
3. It is essential to establish an efﬁcient, collaborative O&M mechanism; to strengthen
the training and communication of O&M personnel; and to improve the cooperation
between O&M teams, so as to achieve more efﬁcient intelligent O&M for wind power.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 27 of 35
5. Summary and Conclusions
In this paper, the common failure modes and causes of wind turbines are discussed
in detail, and the failure mechanisms and processes of wind turbine equipment are inves-
tigated. This study analyzes current O&M costs in the wind energy industry so that the
reader can understand the relationship between wind energy operations and maintenance
costs. Finally, we review the current research results on key technologies for intelligent
O&M in the wind energy industry, summarize the problems that exist in these research
results, and provide an outlook on the future directions of intelligent O&M in the wind
energy industry. According to the review of previous studies, a great deal of experimental
and theoretical research is still needed in the following areas.
(a) Fault analysis and research of wind turbine
 Failure data comes from different platforms and systems, and the differences in data
quality lead to certain problems in data stability and reliability. Data quality should
be improved by methods such as standardizing defective data and creating a defect
database to provide a basis for subsequent data analysis.
 Not only do wind turbines have a large number of installations and complex oper-
ational data, but the number of effective analyses for fault samples is small, which
results in a lack of real and valid fault analysis data. By establishing a multi-domain
fault data platform and providing more fault samples to accelerate the training efﬁ-
ciency of these machine learning algorithms, the accuracy of fault analysis results can
be improved.
 The current fault analysis algorithms are based mainly on machine learning algorithms.
However, while they have high accuracy, some of the algorithms have low processing
efﬁciency, and it is difﬁcult to address large-scale fault analysis problems. In order to
develop more efﬁcient and faster Java application systems for fault analysis decision
support, new types of algorithms, such as deep-learning-based algorithms, should be
actively practiced and developed.
 Fault diagnosis requires a large amount of domain knowledge and experience. How-
ever, in the actual fault analysis process, the analysis of the real situation is sometimes
limited by the accumulation of knowledge. A ﬁne-tuned fault knowledge system and
modeling method should be established to correlate the wind turbine operational state
with the fault mode to achieve accurate and fast fault diagnosis and evaluation.
(b) Research on key technologies of wind energy intelligent O&M
 Wind turbines produce a variety of data during operation, and the data are numer-
ous, scattered, and discontinuous; thus, a reﬁned data acquisition system must be
established to integrate the data into an analyzable format. A fast and efﬁcient data
acquisition system should be established to integrate discrete and scattered data
into an analyzable format to provide a basis for wind turbine condition monitoring
and prediction.
 Data analysis algorithms and models suitable for wind turbines need to be established,
and based on these algorithms and models, intelligent diagnosis and early warning
systems need to be developed to diagnose and prevent wind turbine failures in a
timely and accurate manner.
 A large amount of data and analysis results must be accurately and reliably trans-
formed into effective decision support to realize automated operation and intelligent
decision making. A reliable and practical intelligent decision support system should be
established to deeply analyze the meaning behind the data and to provide intelligent
decision support.
 The intelligent O&M system undoubtedly faces hidden security problems, such as
system attacks and data leakage, which seriously affect the safe and stable operation
of wind turbines. Strict measures such as data encryption, system security prevention,
and vulnerability repair should be taken to improve the security and conﬁdentiality of
the wind power intelligent O&M system.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 28 of 35
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, H.P . and Y.F.; methodology, L.S., Y.F. and S.L.; investiga-
tion, Y.F., H.Z. and H.P .; validation, H.P . and L.S.; resources, S.L.; writing—original draft preparation,
S.L.; writing—review and editing, H.P . and Y.F.; supervision, L.S.; project administration, Y.F.; funding
acquisition, H.P . All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This study was funded by the Projects 202176 “Zhengzhou City’s ‘Announce the List and
Take Charge’ Special Program”, 22IRTSTHN018 “Science and Technology In-novation Team Support
Program for Universities in Henan Province”, “Zhengzhou City’s Innovation Leading Team Support
Program”, and “North China University of Water Resources and Electric Power’s Young Backbone
Project Support Program”.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: This work received funding from the North China University of Water Resources
and Electric Power for the Master’s Innovation Capacity Enhancement Project and was supported by
the Science and Technology Innovation Team Support Program for Universities in Henan Province
(22IRTSTHN018) and a Training Plan for Young Backbone Teachers of North China University of
Water Resources and Electric Power in 2022.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Wang, Q.; Gao, Z.; Yuan, X.; Wang, J.; Wang, M. Comprehensive energy evaluation and optimization of corn straw power
generation system: A case study. Chin. J. Popul. Resour. 2019 ,17, 135–144.
2. Ramadan, S.; Abdelrahman, A.; Sharaf, M. Wind potential investigation with turbine siting control for improved energy yield at
El-Tor Region, Egypt. Comput. Electr. Eng. 2022 ,100, 853–863. [CrossRef]
3. Gao, C.; Chen, H.; Xie, Y.; Qi, L. Conceptual Design and Motion Response Research of Wind Power Operation and Maintenance
Life Platform. J. Res. Sci. Eng. 2020 ,2, 132484.
4. Chen, H.; Xi, S. Cost composition and price mechanism of offshore wind power. Wind Eng. 2022 ,1, 12–15.
5. Wang, Z.; Guo, Y.; Wang, H. Review on Monitoring and Operation-Maintenance Technology of Far-Reaching Sea Smart Wind
Farms. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 820. [CrossRef]
6. Pang, B.; Tian, T.; Tang, G. Fault state recognition of wind turbine gearbox based on generalized multi-scale dynamic time
warping. Struct. Health Monit. 2021 ,20, 2013–2024. [CrossRef]
7. Main Components of a Horizontal Axis Wind Turbine. Available online: https://www.researchgate.net/ﬁgure/5-Main-
components-of-a-horizontal-axis-wind-turbine_ﬁg3_235340138 (accessed on 6 January 2010).
8. Chen, C.S. Study on the Daily Maintenance and Fault Handling of Wind Turbine. Parabol. Equ. Mat. 2021 ,50, 34–36. Available
online: https://kns.cnki.net/kcms2/article/abstract?v=3uoqIhG8C44YLTlOAiTRKibYlV5Vjs7iJTKGjg9uTdeTsOI_ra5_Xaw0
AwD42Ay9RBfe6ugmAmgSOS7MhgW-i3aoCH0XzA-T&uniplatform=NZKPT (accessed on 2 April 2022).
9. Li, H.; Wang, X.; Wang, D. Study on fault diagnosis of wind turbine pitch system based on fault tree. Plant Maint. Eng. 2022 ,15,
168–169. [CrossRef]
10. Wang, X.M. Analysis of high speed shaft tooth break in wind turbine gearbox. Electr. Eng. 2022 ,4, 58–60. [CrossRef]
11. Sanjeev, K.; Vikash, K.; Somnath, S.; Prakash, S.O. Gearbox fault diagnosis: A higher order moments approach. Measurement 2023 ,
210, 112489.
12. Solomin, E.V .; Ryavkin, G.N. Horizontal Axis Wind Turbine Weather Vane Aerodynamic Characteristics: Delayed Detached Eddy
Simulation and Experimental Approach. Mathematics 2023 ,11, 1834. [CrossRef]
13. Liu, Y.N. Analysis of Abnormal Sound and Vibration of Wind Turbine Yaw System. Encycl. Forms 2020 ,9, 1651. Avail-
able online: https://d.wanfangdata.com.cn/periodical/ChlQZXJpb2RpY2FsQ0hJTmV3UzIwMjMwMzIxEhJia2x0ZHp6
ejIwMjAwOTMyNzQaCGhzNDFxdzMx (accessed on 13 November 2020).
14. Jard, T.; Snaiki, R. Real-Time Repositioning of Floating Wind Turbines Using Model Predictive Control for Position and Power
Regulation. Wind 2023 ,3, 131–150. [CrossRef]
15. Zhang, P .; Lu, D. A Survey of Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis towards Integrated O&M for Wind Turbines. Energies
2019 ,12, 2801.
16. Quaranta, E.; Davies, P . Emerging and innovative materials for hydropower engineering applications: Turbines, bearings, sealing,
dams and waterways, and ocean power. Engineering 2021 ,8, 148–158. [CrossRef]
17. Hu, A.; Xiang, L.; Zhu, L. An engineering condition indicator for condition monitoring of wind turbine bearings. Wind Eng. 2020 ,
23, 207–219. [CrossRef]
18. Wang, J.; Liang, Y.; Zheng, Y.; Gao, R.X.; Zhang, F. Study on the design principle of the new wind turbine transmission scheme.
Renew. Energy 2018 ,36, 593–597.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 29 of 35
19. Zhang, J.; Zhang, M.; Li, Y.; Qin, J.; Wei, K.; Song, L. Analysis of wind characteristics and wind energy potential in complex
mountainous region in southwest China. J. Clean. Prod. 2020 ,274, 123036. [CrossRef]
20. Wang, Y.; Zhu, C.; Li, Y.; Tan, J. Maximizing the total power generation of faulty wind turbines via reduced power operation.
Energy Sustain. Dev. 2021 ,65, 36–44. [CrossRef]
21. Song, X.; Xing, Z.; Jia, Y.; Song, X.; Cai, C.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, Z.; Guo, J.; Li, Q. Review on the Damage and Fault Diagnosis of Wind
Turbine Blades in the Germination Stage. Energies 2022 ,15, 7492. [CrossRef]
22. Okulov, V .; Kabardin, I.; Mukhin, D.; Stepanov, K.; Okulova, N. Physical De-Icing Techniques for Wind Turbine Blades. Energies
2021 ,14, 6750. [CrossRef]
23. Jim énez, A.A.; Zhang, L.; Muñoz, C.Q.G.; M árquez, F.P .G. Maintenance management based on machine learning and nonlinear
features in wind turbines. Renew. Energy 2020 ,146, 316–328. [CrossRef]
24. A 3MW E-115 Unit of Enercon Suffered a Blade Fracture Accident due to Over-Speed Wind Turbine. Available online: http:
//www.cweea.com.cn/xwdt/html/13122.html (accessed on 15 March 2018).
25. Barbosa, N.B.; Nunes, D.D.G.; Santos, A. Á.B.; Machado, B.A.S. Technological Advances on Fault Diagnosis in Wind Turbines: A
Patent Analysis. Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 1721. [CrossRef]
26. Chou, J.S.; Ou, Y.C.; Lin, K.Y. Collapse mechanism and risk management of wind turbine tower in strong wind. J. Wind. Eng. Ind.
Aerodyn. 2019 ,193, 103962. [CrossRef]
27. Stetco, A.; Dinmohammadi, F.; Zhao, X.; Robu, V .; Flynn, D.; Barnes, M.; Keane, J.; Nenadic, G. Machine learning methods for
wind turbine condition monitoring: A review. Renew. Energy 2019 ,133, 620–635. [CrossRef]
28. Zhang, M.; Zhang, J.; Li, Y.; Yu, J.; Qin, J.; Wei, K.; Song, L. Multi-site measurement for energy application of small distributed
wind farm in complex mountainous areas. Energy Rep. 2020 ,6, 1043–1056. [CrossRef]
29. Steffen, B.; Beuse, M.; Tautorat, P .; Schmidt, T.S. Experience curves for operations and maintenance costs of Renewable Energy
technologies. Joule 2020 ,4, 359–375. [CrossRef]
30. In the Age of Industrial Intelligence, How Intelligent Can the Fan Blade Be? Available online: https://www.163.com/dy/article/
ESJG5GKS05509P99.html (accessed on 28 October 2019).
31. Igba, J.; Alemzadeh, K.; Durugbo, C.; Eiriksson, E.T. Technology, Through-life engineering services of wind turbines. CIRP J.
Manuf. Sci. Technol. 2017 ,17, 60–70. [CrossRef]
32. Koitz, R.; Wotawa, F.; Lüftenegger, J.; Gray, C.S.; Langmayr, F. Wind Turbine Fault Localization: A Practical Application of Model-
Based Diagnosis. In Diagnosability, Security and Safety of Hybrid Dynamic and Cyber-Physical Systems ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,
Germany, 2018; pp. 17–43.
33. Gao, Z.; Liu, X. An Overview on Fault Diagnosis, Prognosis and Resilient Control for Wind Turbine Systems. Processes 2021 ,9, 300 .
[CrossRef]
34. A Detailed Corrosion Prevention Program for the Wind Power Industry. Available online: https://www.sohu.com/a/485092258_
100302556 (accessed on 23 August 2021).
35. Jimenez-Martinez, M.J.H. Harbor and coastal structures: A review of mechanical fatigue under random wave loading. Heliyon
2021 ,7, e08241. [CrossRef]
36. Schwack, F.; Stammler, M.; Flory, H.; Poll, G. Free contact angles in pitch bearings and their impact on contact and stress
conditions. In Proceedings of the 2016 Wind Europe Conference, Hamburg, Germany, 27–29 September 2016; pp. 1–10.
37. Bhardwaj, U.; Teixeira, A.P .; Soares, C.G. Reliability prediction of an offshore wind turbine gearbox. Renew. Energy 2019 ,141,
693–706. [CrossRef]
38. Lin, Z.; Cevasco, D.; Collu, M. A methodology to develop reduced-order models to support the operation and maintenance of
offshore wind turbines. Appl. Energy 2020 ,259, 114228. [CrossRef]
39. Yan, X.; She, D.; Xu, Y.; Jia, M. Application of Generalized Composite Multiscale Lempel–Ziv Complexity in Identifying Wind
Turbine Gearbox Faults. Entropy 2021 ,23, 1372. [CrossRef]
40. Application of Industrial Endoscope in the Detection of Wind Turbine Gearbox. Available online: https://www.chem17.com/
tech_news/detail/2198984.html (accessed on 29 April 2020).
41. Rabaia, M.K.H.; Abdelkareem, M.A.; Sayed, E.T.; Elsaid, K.; Chae, K.-J.; Wilberforce, T.; Olabi, A. Environmental impacts of solar
energy systems: A review. Sci. Total Environ. 2021 ,754, 141989. [CrossRef]
42. Liu, Z.Q.; Sun, J.; Shen, W.D. Study of plowing and friction at the surfaces of plastic deformed metals. Tribol. Int. 2002 ,35, 511–522.
[CrossRef]
43. Shot Peening Combined with Finishing to Repair Tooth Surface Failure. Available online: https://www.sohu.com/a/432754392_
766672 (accessed on 18 November 2020).
44. Bauer, A.; Menrad, K. Standing up for the Paris Agreement: Do global climate targets inﬂuence individuals’ greenhouse gas
emissions? Environ. Sci. Policy 2019 ,99, 72–79. [CrossRef]
45. Przystupa, K. Research on the Durability and Reliability of Industrial Layered Coatings on Metal Substrate due to Abrasive Wear.
Materials 2023 ,16, 1779. [CrossRef]
46. Several Failure Modes of Wind Power Gear. Available online: http://www.md-c.net/news_x-3470-1.html (accessed on
21 August 2018).
47. Wind Power Gearbox Shaft Wear How to Repair? Available online: http://news.sohu.com/a/442770103_120342063 (accessed on
6 January 2021).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 30 of 35
48. Wei, J.; Niu, R.; Dong, Q.; Zhang, S. Fretting-slipping fatigue failure mode in planetary gear system. Int. J. Fatigue 2020 ,136, 105632 .
[CrossRef]
49. Ren, G.G. Hypo-elastohydrodynamic lubrication of journal bearings with deformable surface. Tribol. Int. 2022 ,175, 107787.
[CrossRef]
50. Ren, J.; Yuan, H. A Dynamic Wear Prediction Model for Studying the Interactions between Surface Wear and Dynamic Response
of Spur Gears. Coatings 2022 ,12, 1250. [CrossRef]
51. At Timken, Customer-Centric Innovation Drives Real-World Results. Available online: https://www.timken.com/ (accessed on
13 November 2018).
52. Damage Problems of Gear and Bearing, Key Components of Wind Turbine Gearbox. Available online: https://www.sohu.com/
a/275027446_99953492 (accessed on 13 November 2018).
53. Luz, T.; Moura, P . 100% Renew. Energy planning with complementarity and ﬂexibility based on a multi-objective assessment.
Appl. Energy 2019 ,255, 113819. [CrossRef]
54. Gong, Y.; Fei, J.L.; Tang, J.; Yang, Z.G.; Han, Y.M.; Li, X. Failure analysis on abnormal wear of roller bearings in gearbox for wind
turbine. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2017 ,82, 26–38. [CrossRef]
55. Greco, A.; Sheng, S.; Keller, J.; Erdemir, A. Material wear and fatigue in wind turbine systems. Wear 2013 ,302, 1583–1591.
[CrossRef]
56. Godwin, J.L.; Matthews, P . Classiﬁcation and Detection of Wind Turbine Pitch Faults through SCADA Data Analysis. Int. J. Progn.
Health Manag. 2013 ,4, 90–100. [CrossRef]
57. Castellani, F.; Astolﬁ, D.; Natili, F. SCADA Data Analysis Methods for Diagnosis of Electrical Faults to Wind Turbine Generators.
Appl. Sci. 2021 ,11, 3307. [CrossRef]
58. Li, M.; Wang, S.X. Dynamic Fault Monitoring of Pitch System in Wind Turbines using Selective Ensemble Small-World Neural
Networks. Energies 2019 ,12, 3256. [CrossRef]
59. Yiran, S.; Shoutao, L.; Shuangxin, W. Pitch angle control with fault diagnosis and tolerance for wind turbine generation systems.
Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. 2021 ,235, 1355–1366.
60. Wang, H.; Wang, H.B.; Jiang, G.Q.; Wang, Y.L.; Ren, S.A. Multiscale Spatio-Temporal Convolutional Deep Belief Network for
Sensor Fault Detection of Wind Turbine. Sensors 2020 ,20, 3580. [CrossRef]
61. Pan, J.H.; Qu, L.L.; Peng, K.X. Sensor and Actuator Fault Diagnosis for Robot Joint Based on Deep CNN. Entropy 2021 ,23, 751.
[CrossRef]
62. Fezai, R.; Dhibi, K.; Mansouri, M.; Trabelsi, M.; Hajji, M.; Bouzrara, K.; Nounou, H.; Nounou, M. Effective Random Forest-Based
Fault Detection and Diagnosis for Wind Energy Conversion Systems. IEEE Sens. J. 2021 ,21, 6914–6921. [CrossRef]
63. Lopez-Guede, J.M.; Ramos-Hernanz, J.A.; Zulueta, E.; Fernandez-Gamiz, U.; Oterino, F. Systematic modeling of photovoltaic
modules based on artiﬁcial neural networks. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2016 ,41, 12672–12687. [CrossRef]
64. Lopez-Guede, J.M.; Ramos-Hernanz, J.A.; Zulueta, E.; Fernandez-Gamiz, U.; Azkune, G. Dual model oriented modeling of
monocrystalline PV modules based on artiﬁcial neuronal networks. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2017 ,42, 18103–18120. [CrossRef]
65. Merabet, A.; Eshaft, H.; Tanvir, A.A. Power-current controller based sliding mode control for DFIG-wind energy conversion
system. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2018 ,12, 1155–1163. [CrossRef]
66. Gonzalez-Gonzalez, A.; Etxeberria-Agiriano, I.; Zulueta, E.; Oterino-Echavarri, F.; Lopez-Guede, J.M. Pitch Based Wind Turbine
Intelligent Speed Setpoint Adjustment Algorithms. Energies 2014 ,7, 3793–3809. [CrossRef]
67. Fernandez-Gauna, B.; Fernandez-Gamiz, U.; Grana, M. Variable speed wind turbine controller adaptation by reinforcement
learning. Integr. Comput. Aided Eng. 2017 ,24, 27–39. [CrossRef]
68. Dai, J.; Yang, X.; Yang, W.; Gao, G.; Li, M. Further Study on the Effects of Wind Turbine Yaw Operation for Aiding Active Wake
Management. Appl. Sci. 2020 ,10, 1978. [CrossRef]
69. Astolﬁ, D.; Castellani, F.; Terzi, L. Wind Turbine Power Curve Upgrades. Energies 2018 ,11, 1300. [CrossRef]
70. Terzi, L.; Lombardi, A.; Castellani, F.; Astolﬁ, D. Innovative methods for wind turbine power curve upgrade assessment. J. Phys.
Conf. Ser. 2018 ,1102 , 012036. [CrossRef]
71. Song, D.; Fan, X.; Yang, J.; Liu, A.; Chen, S.; Joo, Y.H. Power extraction efﬁciency optimization of horizontal-axis wind turbines
through optimizing control parameters of yaw control systems using an intelligent method. Appl. Energy 2018 ,224, 267–279.
[CrossRef]
72. Karakasis, N.; Mesemanolis, A.; Nalmpantis, T.; Mademlis, C. Active yaw control in a horizontal axis wind system without
requiring wind direction measurement. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2016 ,10, 1441–1449. [CrossRef]
73. Shariatpanah, H.; Fadaeinedjad, R.; Rashidinejad, M. A New Model for PMSG-Based Wind Turbine with Yaw Control. IEEE
Trans. Energy Convers. 2013 ,28, 929–937. [CrossRef]
74. Bartl, J.; Mühle, F.; Schottler, J.; Sætran, L.; Peinke, J.; Adaramola, M.; Hölling, M. Wind tunnel experiments on wind turbine
wakes in yaw: Effects of inﬂow turbulence and shear. Wind Energy Sci. 2018 ,3, 329–343. [CrossRef]
75. Schottler, J.; Bartl, J.; Muhle, F.; Saetran, L.; Peinke, J.; Hoelling, M. Wind tunnel experiments on wind turbine wakes in yaw:
Redeﬁning the wake width. Wind Energy Sci. 2018 ,3, 257–273. [CrossRef]
76. Bartl, J.; Muhle, F.; Saetran, L. Wind tunnel study on power output and yaw moments for two yaw-controlled model wind
turbines. Wind Energy Sci. 2018 ,3, 489–502. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 31 of 35
77. Urban, A.M.; Larsen, T.J.; Larsen, G.C.; Held, D.P .; Dellwik, E.; Verelst, D. Optimal yaw strategy for optimized power and load in
various wake situations. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2018 ,1102 , 012019. [CrossRef]
78. Annoni, J.; Bay, C.; Taylor, T.; Pao, L.; Fleming, P .; Johnson, K. Efﬁcient Optimization of Large Wind Farms for Real-time Control.
In Proceedings of the 2018 Annual American Control Conference(ACC), Milwaukee, WI, USA, 27–29 June 2018; pp. 6200–6205.
79. Munters, W.; Meyers, J. Dynamic Strategies for Yaw and Induction Control of Wind Farms Based on Large-Eddy Simulation and
Optimization. Energies 2018 ,11, 177. [CrossRef]
80. Damiani, R.; Dana, S.; Annoni, J.; Fleming, P .; Roadman, J.; Dam, J.V .; Dykes, K. Assessment of wind turbine component loads
under yaw-offset conditions. Wind Energy Sci. 2018 ,3, 173–189. [CrossRef]
81. Song, D.; Yang, J.; Fan, X.; Liu, Y.; Liu, A.; Chen, G.; Joo, Y.H. Maximum power extraction for wind turbines through a novel yaw
control solution using predicted wind directions. Energy Convers. Manag. 2018 ,157, 587–599. [CrossRef]
82. Fernandez-Gamiz, U.; Zulueta, E.; Boyano, A.; Ansoategui, I.; Uriarte, I. Five Megawatt Wind Turbine Power Output Improve-
ments by Passive Flow Control Devices. Energies 2017 ,10, 742. [CrossRef]
83. Saenz-Aguirre, A.; Zulueta, E.; Fernandez-Gamiz, U.; Lozano, J.; Lopez-Guede, J.M. Artiﬁcial Neural Network Based Reinforce-
ment Learning for Wind Turbine Yaw Control. Energies 2019 ,12, 436. [CrossRef]
84. Astolﬁ, D.; Castellani, F.; Natili, F. Wind Turbine Yaw Control Optimization and Its Impact on Performance. Machines 2019 ,7, 41.
[CrossRef]
85. Ring Fracture due to Fatigue. Available online: https://www.sohu.com/a/489553951_121123705 (accessed on 13 September 2021 ).
86. Fault Analysis and Solution for Yaw System of Hua-Chuang 1. 5MW Wind Turbine in a Wind Farm. Available online: http:
//www.chinaqking.com/yc/2021/3198508.html (accessed on 11 August 2021).
87. Obane, H. Forecasting photovoltaic and wind energy capital costs in Japan: A Bayesian approach. Energy Procedia 2019 ,158,
3576–3582. [CrossRef]
88. Aguilar, S.; Telles, G.R.; Medina, P .; Quaresma, B.; Cyrino, F.L.; Castro, R. Wind power generation: A review and a research
agenda. J. Clean. Prod. 2019 ,218, 850–870.
89. Li, H.Z.; Jing, T.; Zhang, H. Arena-based modeling of the maintenance operation for a wind farm. Appl. Mech. Mater. 2013 ,3,
2205–2208. [CrossRef]
90. Li, D.; Feng, Y.; Liu, Z.; Chu, J.; Jin, Q. Reliability modeling and maintenance strategy optimization for wind power generation
sets. Power Syst. Technol. 2011 ,35, 122–127.
91. Hameed, Z.; Vatn, J.; Heggset, J. Challenges in the reliability and maintainability data collection for offshore wind turbines. Renew.
Energy 2011 ,36, 2154–2165. [CrossRef]
92. Tavner, P .J.; Greenwood, D.M.; Whittle, M.W.G.; Gindele, R.; Faulstich, S.; Hahn, B. Study of weather and location effects on wind
turbine failure rates. Wind Energy 2013 ,16, 175–187. [CrossRef]
93. Guo, P .; Inﬁeld, D.; Yang, X. Wind turbine gearbox condition monitoring using temperature trend analysis. IEEE Trans. Sustain.
Energy 2012 ,3, 124–133. [CrossRef]
94. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; Dinwoodie, I.; McMillan, D.; Revie, M.; Lazakis, I. Availability, O & M Costs of Offshore Wind Turbines
with Different Drive Train Conﬁgurations. Wind Energy 2017 ,20, 361–378.
95. Pandit, R.K.; Astolﬁ, D.; Cardenas, I.D. A Review of Predictive Techniques Used to Support Decision Making for Maintenance
Operations of Wind Turbines. Energies 2023 ,16, 1654. [CrossRef]
96. Sunila, K.; Bergaentzl é, C.; Martin, B.; Ekroos, A. A supra-national TSO to enhance offshore wind power development in the
Baltic Sea? A legal and regulatory analysis. Energy Policy 2019 ,128, 775–782. [CrossRef]
97. Wu, X.; Hu, Y.; Li, Y.; Yang, J.; Duan, L.; Wang, T.; Adcock, T.; Jiang, Z.; Gao, Z.; Lin, Z. Foundations of Offshore Wind Turbines: A
Review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2019 ,104, 379–393. [CrossRef]
98. Shadman, M.; Amiri, M.M.; Silva, C.; Estefen, S.F.; La Rovere, E. Environmental impacts of offshore wind installation, O & M, and
decommissioning activities: A case study of Brazil. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2021 ,144, 110994.
99. Ng, E.Y.-K.; Lim, J.T. Machine Learning on Fault Diagnosis in Wind Turbines. Fluids 2022 ,7, 371. [CrossRef]
100. Fan, Q.; Wang, X.; Yuan, J.; Liu, X.; Hu, H.; Lin, P . A Review of the Development of Key Technologies for Offshore Wind Power in
China. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,10, 929. [CrossRef]
101. Khajah, A.M.H.A.; Philbin, S.P . Techno-Economic Analysis and Modelling of the Feasibility of Wind Energy in Kuwait. Clean
Technol. 2022 ,4, 14–34. [CrossRef]
102. Santolamazza, A.; Dadi, D.; Introna, V . A Data-Mining Approach for Wind Turbine Fault Detection Based on SCADA Data
Analysis Using Artiﬁcial Neural Networks. Energies 2021 ,14, 1845. [CrossRef]
103. Akhter, M.Z.; Omar, F.K. Review of Flow-Control Devices for Wind-Turbine Performance Enhancement. Energies 2021 ,14, 1268.
[CrossRef]
104. McKinnon, C.; Turnbull, A.; Koukoura, S.; Carroll, J.; McDonald, A. Effect of Time History on Normal Behaviour Modelling Using
SCADA Data to Predict Wind Turbine Failures. Energies 2020 ,13, 4745. [CrossRef]
105. Maldonado-Correa, J.; Mart ín-Mart ínez, S.; Artigao, E.; G ómez-L ázaro, E. Using SCADA Data for Wind Turbine Condition
Monitoring: A Systematic Literature Review. Energies 2020 ,13, 3132. [CrossRef]
106. Herp, J.; Pedersen, N.L.; Nadimi, E.S. Assessment of Early Stopping through Statistical Health Prognostic Models for Empirical
RUL Estimation in Wind Turbine Main Bearing Failure Monitoring. Energies 2020 ,13, 83. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 32 of 35
107. Zhang, H.L.; Shang, M.X.; Liu, Z.L.; Liu, Y.; Yang, N. Key Equipment and Technology for Offshore Wind Power Maintenance.
Ship Eng. 2021 ,43, 6–8.
108. Mitchell, D.; Blanche, J.; Harper, S.; Lim, T.; Gupta, R.; Zaki, O.; Tang, W.; Robu, V .; Watson, S.; Flynn, D. A review: Challenges
and opportunities for artiﬁcial intelligence and robotics in the offshore wind sector. Energy AI 2022 ,8, 100146. [CrossRef]
109. Moghadam, F.K.; Nejad, A.R. Online condition monitoring of ﬂoating wind turbines drivetrain by means of digital twin. Mech.
Syst. Signal Process. 2022 ,162, 108087. [CrossRef]
110. Zeng, J.P .; Guo, J.X.; Jiang, G.D.; Huang, X.; Hong, X.; Lian, B. Trafﬁc safety supervision scheme of offshore wind farms based on
three-dimensional perception technique. J. Shanghai Inst. Shipbuild. Transp. Sci. 2020 ,43, 61–64.
111. Florian, M.; Sørensen, J.D. Risk-Based Planning of Operation and Maintenance for Offshore Wind Farms. Energy Procedia 2017 ,
137, 261–272. [CrossRef]
112. Song, T.X.; Zhang, T.; Zhang, Y.M.; Huang, B.Q. Technology of operation and maintenance management for offshore wind farm
based on lean MRO thinking. Comput. Integr. Manuf. Syst. 2017 ,23, 387–395.
113. Liu, R.; Solangi, Y.A. An Analysis of Renewable Energy Sources for Developing a Sustainable and Low-Carbon Hydrogen
Economy in China. Processes 2023 ,11, 1225. [CrossRef]
114. Empig, E.E.; Sivacio˘ glu, A.; Pacaldo, R.S.; Suson, P .D.; Lavilles, R.Q.; Teves, M.R.Y.; Ferolin, M.C.M.; Amparado, R.F., Jr. Climate
Change, Sustainable Forest Management, ICT Nexus, and the SDG 2030: A Systems Thinking Approach. Sustainability 2023 ,15,
6712. [CrossRef]
115. Stamate, M.-A.; Pup ăză, C.; Nicolescu, F.-A.; Moldoveanu, C.-E. Improvement of Hexacopter UAVs Attitude Parameters
Employing Control and Decision Support Systems. Sensors 2023 ,23, 1446. [CrossRef]
116. Li, J.; Wang, S.; Yang, J.; Zhang, H.; Zhao, H. A Digital Twin-Based State Monitoring Method of Gear Test Bench. Appl. Sci. 2023 ,
13, 3291. [CrossRef]
117. Xiong, J.; Ye, H.; Pei, W.; Kong, L.; Huo, Q.; Han, Y. A monitoring and diagnostics method based on FPGA-digital twin for power
electronic transformer. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2022 ,210, 108111. [CrossRef]
118. Hou, G.; Xu, K.; Lian, J. A review on recent risk assessment methodologies of offshore wind turbine foundations. Ocean. Eng.
2022 ,264, 112469. [CrossRef]
119. Shen, L. Analysis of risk management and control in the construction of large-scale wind power projects. Eng. Constr. Des. 2022 ,
23, 239–241.
120. Zhao, S.; Su, X.; Li, J.; Suo, G.; Meng, X. Research on Wind Power Project Risk Management Based on Structural Equation and
Catastrophe Theory. Sustainability 2023 ,15, 6622. [CrossRef]
121. El Bazi, N.; Mabrouki, M.; Laayati, O.; Ouhabi, N.; El Hadraoui, H.; Hammouch, F.-E.; Chebak, A. Generic Multi-Layered
Digital-Twin-Framework-Enabled Asset Lifecycle Management for the Sustainable Mining Industry. Sustainability 2023 ,15, 3470.
[CrossRef]
122. Wang, Y.; Sun, W.; Liu, L.; Wang, B.; Bao, S.; Jiang, R. Fault Diagnosis of Wind Turbine Planetary Gear Based on a Digital Twin.
Appl. Sci. 2023 ,13, 4776. [CrossRef]
123. World Wind Energy Association (WWEA). Half-Year Report 2014 ; World Wind Energy Association: Bonn, Germany, 2014.
124. European Wind Energy Association (EWEA). Wind in Power 2015 European Statistics ; Technical Report; World Wind Energy
Association: Bonn, Germany, 2016.
125. Wind Europe. The European Offshore Wind Industry-Key Trends and Statistics 2016 ; Technical Report; Wind Europe: Brussels,
Belgium, 2017.
126. Feng, Y.; Tavner, P .; Long, H. Early experiences with UK round 1 offshore wind farms. Proc. Inst. Civ. Eng. 2010 ,163, 167–181.
[CrossRef]
127. Gintautas, T.; Sørensen, J.D. Improved Methodology of Weather Window Prediction for Offshore Operations Based on Probabilities
of Operation Failure. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2017 ,5, 20. [CrossRef]
128. Seyr, H.; Muskulus, M. Using a Langevin model for the simulation of environmental conditions in an offshore wind farm. J. Phys.
Conf. Ser. 2018 ,1104 , 012023. [CrossRef]
129. Shaﬁee, M.; Brennan, F.; Espinosa, I.A. A parametric whole life cost model for offshore wind farms. Int. J. Life Cycle Assess. 2016 ,
21, 961–975. [CrossRef]
130. Raknes, N.T.; Ødeskaug, K.; Stålhane, M.; Hvattum, L.M. Scheduling of maintenance tasks and routing of a joint vessel ﬂeet for
multiple offshore wind farms. J. Mar. Sci. Eng. 2017 ,5, 11. [CrossRef]
131. Stamatescu, I.; Arghira, N.; F ăgără¸ san, I.; Stamatescu, G.; Iliescu, S.S.; Caloﬁr, V . Decision Support System for a Low Voltage
Renewable Energy System. Energies 2017 ,10, 118. [CrossRef]
132. Rinaldi, G.; Thies, P .; Walker, R.; Johanning, L. A decision support model to optimize the operation and maintenance strategies of
an offshore Renew. Energy farm. Ocean Eng. 2017 ,145, 250–262. [CrossRef]
133. Nguyen, T.A.T.; Chou, S.Y. Maintenance strategy selection for improving cost-effectiveness of offshore wind systems. Energy
Convers. Manag. 2018 ,157, 86–95. [CrossRef]
134. Dinwoodie, I.; McMillan, D.; Lazakis, I.; Dalgic, Y.; Revie, M. On modeling insights for emerging engineering problems: A case
study on the impact of climate uncertainty on the operational performance of offshore wind farms. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. Part O J.
Risk Reliab. 2018 ,232, 524–532. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 33 of 35
135. Ju, L.; Li, P .; Tan, Q.; Tan, Z.; De, G. A CVaR-Robust Risk Aversion Scheduling Model for Virtual Power Plants Connected with
Wind-Photovoltaic-Hydropower-Energy Storage Systems, Conventional Gas Turbines and Incentive-Based Demand Responses.
Energies 2018 ,11, 2903. [CrossRef]
136. Qin, J.; Faber, M.H. Resilience Informed Integrity Management of Wind Turbine Parks. Energies 2019 ,12, 2729. [CrossRef]
137. Benalcazar, P .; Suski, A.; Kami ´ nski, J. Optimal Sizing and Scheduling of Hybrid Energy Systems: The Cases of Morona Santiago
and the Galapagos Islands. Energies 2020 ,13, 3933. [CrossRef]
138. Verhelst, J.; Coudron, I.; Ompusunggu, A.P . SCADA-Compatible and Scaleable Visualization Tool for Corrosion Monitoring of
Offshore Wind Turbine Structures. Appl. Sci. 2022 ,12, 1762. [CrossRef]
139. Petrichenko, L.; Sauhats, A.; Diahovchenko, I.; Segeda, I. Economic Viability of Energy Communities versus Distributed
Prosumers. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 4634. [CrossRef]
140. Dinçer, H.; Yüksel, S.; Aksoy, T.; Hacıo˘ glu, Ü. Application of M-SWARA and TOPSIS Methods in the Evaluation of Investment
Alternatives of Microgeneration Energy Technologies. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 6271. [CrossRef]
141. Pijarski, P .; Kacejko, P .; Miller, P . Advanced Optimisation and Forecasting Methods in Power Engineering—Introduction to the
Special Issue. Energies 2023 ,16, 2804. [CrossRef]
142. Ghazanfari, A. An Analysis of Circular Economy Literature at the Macro Level, with a Particular Focus on Energy Markets.
Energies 2023 ,16, 1779. [CrossRef]
143. Kim, D.; Lee, D. Fault Parameter Estimation Using Adaptive Fuzzy Fading Kalman Filter. Appl. Sci. 2019 ,9, 3329. [CrossRef]
144. Fekih, A.; Habibi, H.; Simani, S. Fault Diagnosis and Fault Tolerant Control of Wind Turbines: An Overview. Energies 2022 ,15, 7186 .
[CrossRef]
145. Wang, X.; Tang, G.; Yan, X.; He, Y.; Zhang, X.; Zhang, C. Fault Diagnosis of Wind Turbine Bearing Based on Optimized Adaptive
Chirp Mode Decomposition. IEEE. Sens. J. 2021 ,21, 13649–13666. [CrossRef]
146. Guo, P .; Fu, J.; Yang, X. Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis of Wind Turbines Gearbox Bearing Temperature Based on
Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test and Convolutional Neural Network Model. Energies 2018 ,11, 2248. [CrossRef]
147. Zhao, H.; Gao, Y.; Liu, H.; Li, L. Fault diagnosis of wind turbine bearing based on stochastic subspace identiﬁcation and
multi-kernel support vector machine. J. Mod. Power Syst. Clean Energy 2018 ,7, 350–356. [CrossRef]
148. Gu, X.; Chen, C. Adaptive parameter-matching method of SR algorithm for fault diagnosis of wind turbine bearing. J. Mech. Sci.
Technol. 2019 ,33, 1007–1018. [CrossRef]
149. Liu, Y.Z.; Zou, Y.S.; Wu, Y.; Zhang, H.Y.; Ding, G.F. A novel abnormal detection method for bearing temperature based on
spatiotemporal fusion. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. Part F J. Rail Rapid Transit 2022 ,236, 317–333. [CrossRef]
150. Xu, Q.; Jiang, H.; Zhang, X.; Li, J.; Chen, L. Multiscale Convolutional Neural Network Based on Channel Space Attention for
Gearbox Compound Fault Diagnosis. Sensors 2023 ,23, 3827. [CrossRef]
151. Mao, G.; Zhang, Z.; Qiao, B.; Li, Y. Fusion Domain-Adaptation CNN Driven by Images and Vibration Signals for Fault Diagnosis
of Gearbox Cross-Working Conditions. Entropy 2022 ,24, 119. [CrossRef]
152. Chen, R.; Huang, X.; Yang, L.; Xu, X.; Zhang, X.; Zhang, Y. Intelligent fault diagnosis method of planetary gearboxes based on
convolution neural network and discrete wavelet transform. Comput. Ind. 2019 ,106, 48–59. [CrossRef]
153. Zhao, M.; Kang, M.; Tang, B.; Pecht, M. Deep Residual Networks with Dynamically Weighted Wavelet Coefﬁcients for Fault
Diagnosis of Planetary Gearboxes. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2018 ,65, 4290–4300. [CrossRef]
154. Zhang, K.; Tang, B.; Deng, L.; Liu, X. A hybrid attention improved Res-Net based fault diagnosis method of wind turbines
gearbox. Measurement 2021 ,179, 109491. [CrossRef]
155. Liu, Y.; Wu, Z.; Wang, X. Research on Fault Diagnosis of Wind Turbine Based on SCADA Data. IEEE Access 2020 ,8, 185557–185569.
[CrossRef]
156. Tautz-Weinert, J.; Watson, S.J. Using SCADA data for wind turbine condition monitoring-a review. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2017 ,
11, 382–394. [CrossRef]
157. Leahy, K.; Gallagher, C.; O’Donovan, P .; Bruton, K.; O’Sullivan, D.T.J. A robust prescriptive framework and performance metric
for diagnosing and predicting wind turbine faults based on SCADA and alarms data with case study. Energies 2018 ,11, 1738.
[CrossRef]
158. Marti-Puig, P .; Blanco-M, A.; Serra-Serra, M.; Sol é-Casals, J. Wind Turbine Prognosis Models Based on SCADA Data and Extreme
Learning Machines. Appl. Sci. 2021 ,11, 590. [CrossRef]
159. Yang, B.; Liu, B.; Zhou, H. A critical survey of technologies of large offshore wind farm integration: Summary, advances, and
perspectives. Prot. Control. Mod. Power Syst. 2022 ,7, 2367–2617. [CrossRef]
160. Jansen, M.; Staffell, I.; Kitzing, L. Offshore wind competitiveness in mature markets without subsidy. Nat. Energy 2020 ,5, 614–622.
[CrossRef]
161. Rubert, T.; McMillan, D.; Niewczas, P . A decision support tool to assist with lifetime extension of wind turbines. Renew. Energy
2018 ,120, 423–433. [CrossRef]
162. Yang, Q.; Zhou, H.; Zhang, X.; Nielsen, C.P .; Li, J.; Lu, X.; Yanga, H.; Chen, H. Hybrid life-cycle assessment for energy consumption
and greenhouse gas emissions of a typical biomass gasiﬁcation power plant in China. J. Clean. Prod. 2018 ,205, 661–671. [CrossRef]
163. Díaz, H.; Soares, C.G. Review of the current status, technology and future trends of offshore wind farms. Ocean Eng.
2020 ,209, 107381. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 34 of 35
164. Junginger, M.; Hittinger, E.; Williams, E. Onshore Wind Energy Technological Learning in the Transition to a Low-Carbon Energy System ,
1st ed.; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2020; pp. 87–102.
165. Beagle, E.; Belmont, E. Comparative life cycle assessment of biomass utilization for electricity generation in the European Union
and the United States. Energy Policy 2019 ,128, 267–275. [CrossRef]
166. Rinaldi, G.; Thies, P .R.; Johanning, L. Current status and future trends in the O & M of offshore wind turbines: A review. Energies
2021 ,14, 2484.
167. Ren, Z.; Verma, A.S.; Li, Y. Offshore wind turbine operations and maintenance: A state-of-the-art review. Renew. Sustain. Energy
Rev. 2021 ,144, 110886. [CrossRef]
168. Szumilas-Kowalczyk, H.; Pevzner, N.; Giedych, R. Long-term visual impacts of aging infrastructure: Challenges of decommis-
sioning wind power infrastructure and a survey of alternative strategies. Renew. Energy 2020 ,150, 550–560. [CrossRef]
169. Mahmud, M.A.P .; Huda, N.; Farjana, S.H.; Lang, C. Environmental impacts of solar-photovoltaic and solar-thermal systems with
life-cycle assessment. Energies 2018 ,11, 2346. [CrossRef]
170. Yildiz, N.; Hemida, H.; Baniotopoulos, C. Maintenance and End-of-Life Analysis in LCA for Barge-Type Floating Wind Turbine.
Wind 2022 ,2, 246–259. [CrossRef]
171. Zhou, S.; Yang, P . Risk management in distributed wind energy implementing Analytic Hierarchy Process. Renew. Energy 2020 ,
150, 616–623. [CrossRef]
172. Kouloumpis, V .; Sobolewski, R.A.; Yan, X. Performance and life cycle assessment of a small scale vertical axis wind turbine.
J. Clean. Prod. 2020 ,247, 119520. [CrossRef]
173. Piasecka, I.; Tomporowski, A.; Flizikowski, J.; Kruszelnicka, W.; Kasner, R.; Mrozi´ nski, A. Life Cycle Analysis of Ecological
Impacts of an Offshore and a Land-Based Wind Power Plant. Appl. Sci. 2019 ,9, 231. [CrossRef]
174. Ziegler, L.; Gonzalez, E.; Rubert, T. Lifetime extension of onshore wind turbines: A review covering Germany, Spain, Denmark,
and the UK. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2018 ,82, 1261–1271. [CrossRef]
175. Beiter, P .; Musial, W.; Duffy, P . The Cost of Floating Offshore Wind Energy in California between 2019 and 2032 ; National Renew; Energy
Lab. (NREL): Golden, CO, USA, 2020.
176. Ioannou, A.; Angus, A.; Brennan, F. Parametric CAPEX, OPEX, and LCOE expressions for offshore wind farms based on global
deployment parameters. Energy Sources Part B Econ. Plan. Policy 2018 ,13, 281–290. [CrossRef]
177. Bosch, J.; Staffell, I.; Hawkes, A.D. Global levelized cost of electricity from offshore wind. Energy 2019 ,189, 116357. [CrossRef]
178. Tsvetkova, O.; Ouarda, T.B.M.J. A review of sensitivity analysis practices in wind resource assessment. Energy Convers. Manag.
2021 ,238, 114112. [CrossRef]
179. Leite, G.N.P .; Weschenfelder, F.; De Farias, J.G. Economic and sensitivity analysis on wind farm end-of-life strategies. Renew.
Sustain. Energy Rev. 2022 ,160, 112273. [CrossRef]
180. An, J.; Zou, Z.; Chen, G.; Sun, Y.; Liu, R.; Zheng, L. An IoT-Based Life Cycle Assessment Platform of Wind Turbines. Sensors 2021 ,
21, 1233. [CrossRef]
181. Yuan, X.; Chen, L.; Sheng, X.; Liu, M.; Xu, Y.; Tang, Y.; Wang, Q.; Ma, Q.; Zuo, J. Life Cycle Cost of Electricity Production: A
Comparative Study of Coal-Fired, Biomass, and Wind Power in China. Energies 2021 ,14, 3463. [CrossRef]
182. Hirvoas, A.; Prieur, C.; Arnaud, E. Quantiﬁcation and reduction of uncertainties in a wind turbine numerical model based on
a global sensitivity analysis and a recursive Bayesian inference approach. Int. J. Numer. Methods Eng. 2021 ,122, 2528–2544.
[CrossRef]
183. Erfani, A.; Tavakolan, M. Risk evaluation model of wind energy investment projects using modiﬁed fuzzy group decision-making
and Monte Carlo simulation. Arthaniti J. Econ. Theory Pract. 2020 ,21, 0976747920963222. [CrossRef]
184. Liu, Y.; Zhang, S.; Chen, X. Artiﬁcial combined model based on hybrid nonlinear neural network models and statistics linear
models—Research and application for wind speed forecasting. Sustainability 2018 ,10, 4601. [CrossRef]
185. Altan, A.; Karasu, S.; Zio, E. A new hybrid model for wind speed forecasting combining long short-term memory neural network,
decomposition methods and grey wolf optimizer. Appl. Soft Comput. 2021 ,100, 106996. [CrossRef]
186. Huang, X.; Wang, J.; Huang, B. Two novel hybrid linear and nonlinear models for wind speed forecasting. Energy Convers. Manag.
2021 ,238, 114162. [CrossRef]
187. Ma, Y. Research on Safety Risk Assessment Method of Wind Power Enterprises Based on Hybrid Analytic Hierarchy Process.
J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2023 ,2418 , 012084. [CrossRef]
188. Dai, X.; Liu, J.; Hu, W. An online-learning-enabled self-attention-based model for ultra-short-term wind power forecasting. Energy
2023 ,23, 127173. [CrossRef]
189. Lledó, L.; Torralba, V .; Soret, A.; Ramon, J.; Doblas-Reyes, F. Seasonal forecasts of wind power generation. Renew. Energy 2019 ,
143, 91–100. [CrossRef]
190. Li, H.; Zhang, R.C.; Wang, X.S.; Bao, A.C.; Jing, H.T. Multi-Step Wind Power Forecast based on VMD-LSTM. IET Renew. Power
Gener. 2019 ,13, 1690–1700.
191. Wu, Q.; Guan, F.; Lv, C.; Huang, Y. Ultra-short-term multi-step wind power forecasting based on CNN-LSTM. IET Renew. Power
Gener. 2021 ,15, 1019–1029. [CrossRef]
192. Niu, Z.; Yu, Z.; Tang, W.; Wu, Q.; Reformat, M. Wind power forecasting using attention-based gated recurrent unit network.
Energy 2020 ,196, 117081. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sustainability 2023 ,15, 8333 35 of 35
193. Jaseena, K.; Kovoor, B.C. Decomposition-based hybrid wind speed forecasting model using deep bidirectional LSTM networks.
Energy Convers. Manag. 2021 ,234, 113944. [CrossRef]
194. Zhang, Y.; Li, Y.; Zhang, G. Short-term wind power forecasting approach based on Seq2Seq model using NWP data. Energy 2020 ,
213, 118371. [CrossRef]
195. Khazaei, S.; Ehsan, M.; Soleymani, S.; Mohammadnezhad-Shourkaei, H. A high-accuracy hybrid method for short-term wind
power forecasting. Energy 2022 ,238, 122020. [CrossRef]
196. Li, D.; Jiang, F.; Chen, M.; Qian, T. Multi-step-ahead wind speed forecasting based on a hybrid decomposition method and
temporal convolutional networks. Energy 2022 ,238, 121981. [CrossRef]
197. Li, W.; Qian, T.; Zhang, Y.; Shen, Y.; Wu, C.; Tang, W. Distributionally robust chance-constrained planning for regional integrated
electricity-heat systems with data centers considering wind power uncertainty. Appl. Energy 2023 ,336, 120787. [CrossRef]
198. Alshamrani, A.; El-Meligy, M.; Sharaf, M.; Nasr, E. A Joint Optimization Model for Transmission Capacity and Wind Power
Investment Considering System Security. IEEE Access 2023 ,11, 15578–15587. [CrossRef]
199. Maienza, C.; Avossa, A.M.; Picozzi, V . Feasibility analysis for ﬂoating offshore wind energy. Int. J. Life Cycle Assess. 2022 ,13,
796–812. [CrossRef]
200. Garcia-Teruel, A.; Rinaldi, G.; Thies, P .R. Life cycle assessment of ﬂoating offshore wind farms: An evaluation of O&M. Appl.
Energy 2022 ,307, 118067.
201. Equinor. Hywind Scotland. Available online: https://www.equinor.com/en/what-we-do/ﬂoating-wind/hywind-scotland.html
(accessed on 2 February 2021).
202. Wind-Float Gen 3|Principle Power—Quest Floating-Wind Energy. Available online: https://questfwe.com/concepts/windﬂoat-
gen-3-principle-power/ (accessed on 6 December 2020).
203. Feng, Y.; Zhang, L. The GHG Intensities of Wind Power Plants in China from a Life-Cycle Perspective: The Impacts of Geographical
Location, Turbine Technology and Management Level. Sustainability 2023 ,15, 4449. [CrossRef]
204. Wang, A.; Qian, Z.; Pei, Y.; Jing, B. A de-ambiguous condition monitoring scheme for wind turbines using least squares generative
adversarial networks. Renew. Energy 2022 ,185, 267–279. [CrossRef]
205. Liu, J.; Song, D.; Yang, J. Life cycle cost modelling and economic analysis of wind power: A state of art review. Energy Convers.
Manag. 2022 ,12, 116628. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
