machines
Review
Fault Detection and Condition Monitoring of PMSGs in
Offshore Wind T urbines
Nuno M. A. Freire1,*
and Antonio J. Marques Cardoso2
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Citation: Freire, N.M.A.; Cardoso,
A.J.M. Fault Detection and Condition
Monitoring of PMSGs in Offshore
Wind Turbines. Machines 2021 ,9, 260.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
machines9110260
Academic Editor: Davide Astolﬁ
Received: 30 September 2021
Accepted: 25 October 2021
Published: 30 October 2021
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).1Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy A/S, 7330 Brande, Denmark
2CISE—Electromechatronic Systems Research Centre, University of Beira Interior, 6201-001 Covilha, Portugal;
ajmcardoso@ieee.org
*Correspondence: nunofr@ieee.org
Abstract: Research on fault detection (FD) and condition monitoring (CM) of rotating electrical
generators for modern wind turbines has addressed a wide variety of technologies. Among these,
permanent magnet synchronous generators (PMSGs) and the analysis of their electromagnetic
signatures in the presence of faults deserve emphasis in this paper. PMSGs are prominent in
the offshore wind industry, and methods for FD and CM of PMSGs based on electromagnetic
measurements are extensively discussed in academia. This paper is a concise review of FD and CM in
wind turbines and PMSGs. Terminology and fundamentals of PMSG’s operation are introduced ﬁrst,
aiming to offer an easy read and good reference to a broad audience of engineers and data scientists.
Experience and research challenges with stator winding failures are also discussed.
Keywords: permanent magnet synchronous generator; fault detection; condition monitoring; wind
turbine; failure; fault analysis; stator winding; fault-tolerance
1. Introduction
The reduction of energy prices and carbon emissions is vital for the modern world
that needs to cut poverty and stop global warming. Wind turbines (WTs) are an important
contributor towards energy production free of CO 2, and associated condition monitoring
systems have a key role in their availability, ultimately, driving the reduction of the cost of
energy.
Since the 1990s, various wind turbine concepts and control techniques have been
developed for maximizing the reliability and efﬁciency while reducing overall cost. State-
of-the art and emerging technologies towards more efﬁcient wind turbines are reviewed
in [1–5]. Among these, the direct drive technology has assumed an important role in the
wind offshore industry with low speed and high torque permanent magnet synchronous
generators (PMSGs).
Condition monitoring and fault diagnosis are considered effective tools to detect
incipient failures and generate early fault alarms, assuming a paramount importance
in reducing operational and maintenance (O&M) costs. O&M costs have a signiﬁcant
contribution from unforeseen drive train failures and account for up to 25% of the total
levelized cost of electricity [ 6]. The generator is a reliable component of a wind turbine, but
its failure causes long downtimes and high economic losses, which serves as motivation
for developing CM methods.
This paper reviews the state-of-the-art in ﬁelds of fault detection (FD) and condition
monitoring (CM) of PMSGs for wind turbine applications. Stator insulation failures are
found as the most critical ones without mature methods to meet wind industry’s needs.
Accordingly, insulation failures are emphasized the most throughout this review, whereas
others are discussed more lightly—high resistance connection of stator windings, airgap
eccentricity, and demagnetization of permanent magnets.
Machines 2021 ,9, 260. https://doi.org/10.3390/machines9110260 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/machines
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 2 of 26
The paper is divided into ten sections: Section 2—FD and CM terminology; Section 3 —
methods adopted and proposed for CM of WTs; Section 4—direct drive technology for
WTs; Section 5—analysis of PMSG faults; Section 6—ofﬂine testing of PMSGs; Section 7 —
online fault detection for PMSGs; Section 8—condition monitoring of PMSGs; Section 9 —
experience with stator winding faults; Section 10—fault-tolerant PMSGs; and Section 11 —
conclusions and research directions.
2. Fault Detection and Condition Monitoring
In depth explanation of condition monitoring related concepts and terminology for
rotating electrical machines can be found in [ 7,8]. A brief introduction is given here for
the beneﬁt of the reader. In fact, terms like failure, fault, fault detection, and condition
monitoring are commonly (mis-)used in the wind industry across teams of data scientists,
mechanical, electrical, and system engineers.
Failure is deﬁned as the time/event when the electrical generator stops to perform its
function of energy conversion. Failure is complete and does not imply partial functionality.
Failure mode is how generator failure occurred (e.g., stator winding insulation failure).
Failure root cause is how the failure mode was initiated (e.g., production defect). Fault is
an abnormal condition or defect that may lead to a failure.
Fault detection (protection) is designed to detect faults as they occur and to initiate
executive action that minimizes damage before failure. The executive action may be
disconnection from the power supply or switch to a safe operating mode. Electrical faults
and failures may coincide in time (e.g., phase-to-ground short-circuit fault and winding
failure) making these terms interchangeable (sometimes confused by electrical engineers),
whereas a mechanical fault may precede failure by months or years (e.g., a broken tooth is
a gearbox fault that progressively leads to its complete failure).
Condition monitoring (CM) aims to derive methods to measure and assess continu-
ously parameters (features) that indicate degradation and provide early warning of future
failure. Ideally, selected parameters develop slowly over time and address the failure
root cause as closely as possible. Accordingly, CM focus on predicting failures, enabling
estimation of the remaining useful life (RUL) and condition-based maintenance of wind
turbine components.
Both FD and CM are intended for continuous evaluation of equipment throughout
its serviceable life. Fault detection is important to stop infant failures (e.g., production
errors, foreign objects, contamination, etc.), whereas condition monitoring is most relevant
for machines approaching the design lifetime or under accelerated ageing conditions
(high capacity factors, temperatures and vibrations). Even though CM, FD and protection
functions are closely related, implementation approaches may differ considerably. If the
same method is employed for fault detection and condition monitoring, caution is required
to ensure robustness against false alarms. Many methods traditionally adopted for fault
protection prove unﬁt for condition monitoring. Successful CM provides failure prognosis
(as early as possible) that is used to plan service interventions and minimize unscheduled
stops and downtime, thus, improving availability and proﬁtability. Concerning generator
electrical failures, a large number of published methods fail to meet this success criteria. In
addition to increasing availability, condition-based maintenance spares the investment in
stock of spare components with long lead times.
Figure 1 shows that CM and FD start at the turbine level with a conceptually similar
process ﬂow, where health indicators are derived from various sources (sensors, controllers,
and CM system) at relatively high sampling rates. CM continues at supervisory control
and data acquisition (SCADA)/cloud servers and diagnostics centers, where methods
are deployed for failure prognosis. As a result, service actions are planned as per the
predicted time of failure, preventing unscheduled stops and reducing downtime. FD
runs at the turbine for fast executive actions—in parallel with CM, triggering either a
stop or a fault-tolerant operating mode. Thus, downtime can be avoided only if the drive
train component being monitored is endowed with fault-tolerant capabilities, which may
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 3 of 26
allow uninterrupted operation or an unscheduled stop of short duration. Fault-tolerant
operation may be initiated automatically by means of software reconﬁgurations (e.g.,
changing operating limits), or manually after corrective maintenance takes places (e.g.,
disconnections of faulty circuits). However, the design of fault-tolerant systems may impact
cost and performance of a wind turbine, making these approaches less attractive.
Machines  2021 , 9, 260 3 of 26 
 
 uninterrupted operation or an unscheduled st op of short duration. Fault-tolerant opera-
tion may be initiated automatically by means of software reconfigurations (e.g., changing 
operating limits), or manually after correcti ve maintenance takes places (e.g., disconnec-
tions of faulty circuits). However, the design  of fault-tolerant systems may impact cost 
and performance of a wind turbine, making these approaches less attractive. 
With the aid of Figure 1, it must have beco me evident to the reader that requirements 
and benefits differ between CM and FD. The ef fort spent in CM to recognize fault devel-
opment as  e arly  as  poss ible is  motivate d by  the need for cost-effective preventive and 
condition-based maintenance approaches, having the potential to eliminate unscheduled service/stops—obviously more valuable than  emergency shutdowns just before cata-
strophic failure. Condition-based maintenance is a process of planning optimal and timely 
maintenance based on machine condition info rmation obtained through CM. As an exam-
ple, operators may choose to run a faulty genera tor till failure to reduce production losses, 
while a replacement is manufactured and shi pped to site. A major offshore repair—gen-
erator replacement—often takes several weeks from planning to execution. 
Ideally, CM is deployed by exploiting ex isting sensors (used for control and protec-
tion) and data (dark data) for minimum cost of implementation. However, this is often 
unfeasible, and the CM system operates in standalone. Better integration of CM systems 
with turbines controllers may improve perfor mance and reduce costs. The cost of CM 
hardware becomes the first barrier to the adop tion of innovative technologies. An assess-
ment of the business case is required to justify the investment in CM, taking into consid-
eration costs of repair or replacement and do wntime. An attractive business case is much 
more likely to be found for large MW generato rs with long lifetime  expectancy. Thus, new 
offshore turbines and their generators are g ood candidates due to difficult access, long 
lead times, and costly operations (logistics— Several thousands of EUR /hour, repair, re-
placement, loss of production— Several thousand s of EUR /day, financial penalties, etc.). 
However, the economic value added by the CM system strongly depends on its per-
formance. The study in [9] quantifies the ec onomics of an imperfectly performing CM 
system for wind turbine gearboxes. A poor performing CM system—high rate of false 
alarms—will be ignored, thus the investment in CM will be an additional loss on top of 
the unforeseen failures. 
Even though the potential of condition-based maintenance for offshore turbines is 
widely recognized by academia and industry, it is seldomly used. Condition monitoring 
of bearings and gearboxes are success examples, whereas CM of generators lacks mature 
and robust methods. Therefore, more research efforts/contributions are needed if the wind 
industry should switch from corrective main tenance (remedying of failures) to predic-
tive/condition-based maintenance (repair just be fore failure) in orde r to maximize availa-
bility. 
 
Figure 1. Condition monitoring and fault detect ion for wind turbines’ drive train. Data Acquisition
Signal Processing
Feature Extraction
Condition Monitoring
Scheduled Stop
Condition-based 
MaintenanceFault Detection
Unscheduled Stop
Corrective 
MaintenanceFault-Tolerant 
Operation
Scheduled StopExecutive ActionHealth Indicators
Planned Action
Downtime
Planned Action@SCADA Servers & Diagnostic Centers@Wind Turbine
Figure 1. Condition monitoring and fault detection for wind turbines’ drive train.
With the aid of Figure 1, it must have become evident to the reader that requirements
and beneﬁts differ between CM and FD. The effort spent in CM to recognize fault devel-
opment as early as possible is motivated by the need for cost-effective preventive and
condition-based maintenance approaches, having the potential to eliminate unscheduled
service/stops—obviously more valuable than emergency shutdowns just before catas-
trophic failure. Condition-based maintenance is a process of planning optimal and timely
maintenance based on machine condition information obtained through CM. As an ex-
ample, operators may choose to run a faulty generator till failure to reduce production
losses, while a replacement is manufactured and shipped to site. A major offshore repair—
generator replacement—often takes several weeks from planning to execution.
Ideally, CM is deployed by exploiting existing sensors (used for control and protection)
and data (dark data) for minimum cost of implementation. However, this is often unfeasible,
and the CM system operates in standalone. Better integration of CM systems with turbines
controllers may improve performance and reduce costs. The cost of CM hardware becomes
the ﬁrst barrier to the adoption of innovative technologies. An assessment of the business
case is required to justify the investment in CM, taking into consideration costs of repair
or replacement and downtime. An attractive business case is much more likely to be
found for large MW generators with long lifetime expectancy. Thus, new offshore turbines
and their generators are good candidates due to difﬁcult access, long lead times, and
costly operations (logistics— Several thousands of EUR /hour, repair, replacement, loss of
production— Several thousands of EUR /day, ﬁnancial penalties, etc.).
However, the economic value added by the CM system strongly depends on its
performance. The study in [ 9] quantiﬁes the economics of an imperfectly performing CM
system for wind turbine gearboxes. A poor performing CM system—high rate of false
alarms—will be ignored, thus the investment in CM will be an additional loss on top of the
unforeseen failures.
Even though the potential of condition-based maintenance for offshore turbines is
widely recognized by academia and industry, it is seldomly used. Condition monitoring
of bearings and gearboxes are success examples, whereas CM of generators lacks mature
and robust methods. Therefore, more research efforts/contributions are needed if the
wind industry should switch from corrective maintenance (remedying of failures) to
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 4 of 26
predictive/condition-based maintenance (repair just before failure) in order to maximize
availability.
Mechanical faults tend to take signiﬁcant periods of time to develop, and the root
cause can be detected months in advance by vibration measurements [ 10]. On the other
hand, electrical and electronic components may not show measurable signs of degraded
performance until failure happens (or just seconds before), thus CM fails to provide early
warning of failure and corrective maintenance is the only option left. Therefore, mechanical
and electrical engineers may have very different views on CM. Mechanical engineers tend to
look for faults via the vibration spectrum, whereas electrical engineers via the current, ﬂux
or power. In fact, there is commonality between the two approaches—same characteristic
frequency components [ 7]. The best monitoring may be devised from choosing either
one or a combination of these quantities. Multi-parameter monitoring and sensor fusion
methods may offer improved detection conﬁdence. Among many factors, instrumentation
sensitivity and signal-to-noise ratio play a major role in the selection of variables for
condition monitoring.
3. Wind T urbine Condition Monitoring Methods
CM of electrical machines emerged in the 1980s and was later adopted for wind
turbines. This section addresses methods and trends for wind turbines. Broad categories
are ofﬂine and online CM, and intrusive and non-intrusive methods. Traditional ofﬂine CM
is not suitable for offshore WTs because it requires periodic visits and stops to allow instal-
lation of equipment and acquisition of measurements. Methods suited for ofﬂine CM are
instead used in factory tests and onsite troubleshooting. Intrusive methods are associated
with demanding installation requirements (e.g., oil debris detectors, accelerometers, search
coils), whereas non-intrusive are contactless or use existing sensors (e.g., thermography,
acoustic emission (AE), electrical signals for control).
Data used for CM is mostly from SCADA and dedicated CM systems. Raw data
from WT sensors may be sampled at high frequencies, but down sampled for SCADA
systems to provide average or instantaneous values at given intervals. Data resolution
as low as 10 min is common for statistical data. Most modern CM systems are designed
for vibration monitoring, being capable of acquiring and post-processing signals at high
sampling rates. Although SCADA signals are available in all modern wind turbines, these
are not extensively exploited for turbine health monitoring. Performance monitoring that
uses SCADA data to establish relationships between various parameters such as power,
wind speed, pitch angle, rotor speed and more may also be used for condition monitoring.
Industry and academia have increased their efforts to extract useful information from the
so-called “dark data”. Integration of the multiple systems and signals useful for CM also
deserve attention to achieve superior results at lower costs.
Most studies in the literature deal with the use of SCADA data concerning condition
monitoring for mechanical faults, which were reviewed in [ 11,12]. An example of model-
based diagnostic for generator electrical faults is given in [ 13] by using SCADA data for
electrical signals (power, voltages and currents), principal component analysis and support
vector regression. The authors stated that fault detection was possible two weeks before
failure, but the type of generator failure is not disclosed. It is also pointed out that sampling
times of SCADA data are not ideal for the dynamics of interest. Another study in [ 14] states
that generator failure can be predicted 18 days in advance with 80% accuracy.
Condition monitoring techniques and signal processing methods are reviewed in [ 15].
A large variety of methods have been proposed, but only a few are widely used by the
wind industry for fault detection and CM—detection of smoke and analysis of vibrations,
oil, and temperatures.
Smoke (or dust) detection appears as the simplest and most general of all techniques,
for example to detect degrading insulation and excessive heat dissipation. At the time of
smoke detection, failure is most likely inevitable, and emergency stop mandatory. Thus,
even though key for turbine protection, such detection technique is of little interest for CM.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 5 of 26
Vibration analysis is the most popular technology, and accelerometers are widely
employed for CM of gearboxes and bearings. For instance, the characteristic frequencies
of rolling element bearings depend on the geometrical size of the various elements [ 7]
and can be measured by accelerometers mounted on the bearing housing. Other faults
detectable by vibration measurement are static and dynamic eccentricity, unbalanced rotor
mass, and winding faults. Vibration monitoring has gained wide acceptance throughout
the industry. A survey of commercially available solutions identiﬁed 36 CM systems for
wind turbine applications [ 16] with a strong emphasis on vibration monitoring of rotating
electrical machines and gearboxes. Gram & Jul and Bruel & Kjær Vibro appear to have
the largest track records as suppliers of SGRE and Vestas, respectively. SGRE deploys
vibration diagnostics as a tool for predictive maintenance [ 17], enabling the early detection
of anomalies, optimal service planning, and repairs before failure.
Temperature measurements are well suited for SCADA systems due to their slow
dynamics, and widely used for hardware protection and control of operational limits. As
opposed to low power applications of electrical machines, MW generators are commonly
equipped with point temperature measurements that can be used for CM. Several issues
and inaccuracies arise with winding temperature point measurements because: (1) sensors
need to be insulated and located at a given distance from the copper; (2) sensors’ placement
varies due to production and installation tolerances, resulting in signiﬁcant measurement
differences between multiple sensors; (3) sensors’ locations chosen to measure hotspots
in healthy state operation may fail to spot local temperature changes due to faults in
large size generators. Bulk temperature measurements—to obtain a thermal image or
equivalent—are difﬁcult and expensive (thermography, arrays of infrared sensors, ﬁber
optics, etc.), thus rarely attempted for serial turbines. Thermography is not well-established
for online CM due to price and complexity. Moreover, low sensitivity of infra-red cameras
may prevent detection of incipient winding faults. Modern sensors allow the temperature
measurements to be made closer to the active parts of a machine and in a more distributed
manner (ﬁber optics, FBG). As health indicators, temperature rise (dT/dt) and deviation
between multiple sensors may be more valuable than absolute temperature values. It is
worth noting that the temperature of generator components depends on many factors
(ambient temperature, generator electrical load, cooling system, and health condition of
sub-components) and thermal steady-state may be a rare operating condition for a wind
turbine due to varying wind conditions. Accordingly, it is challenging to deploy model-
based diagnostics based on temperature measurements with the required robustness for
CM. A regression model based on SCADA data predicts temperatures of wind turbine
components in [ 18], and residuals between predicted and actual values are used to generate
fault warning.
Oil analysis in WTs concerns mostly debris detection in gearbox and bearing lubricant.
In a debris detector, ﬂuid ﬂows continuously through a transducer that identiﬁes changes
in the ﬂuid characteristics. Such devices have been deployed in wind turbines, and one
example is the MetalScan by Gastops for real-time detection of gearbox damage installed
on Siemens SWT-3.6 [ 19]. In a direct liquid cooled transformer or machine, coolant may
be contaminated with insulation particles resulting from its degradation and discharge
activity.
Many other methods have found little acceptance from the wind industry yet. Ex-
amples are monitoring of acoustic emission, radio-frequency emission, electromagnetic
and electrical signals. The primary sources of acoustic emission in WTs are the generation
and propagation of cracks. Acoustic monitoring has been proposed for CM of bearings,
gearboxes, and blades with acoustic sensors recording sound directly. Vibrations and
acoustic emission are combined in [20] for CM of gearbox and generator shaft.
Electromagnetic and electrical signals measured by search coils, ﬂux, current and volt-
age sensors have been addressed mostly by other drives’ industries. The use of an electrical
signal—generator power—is proposed for cost-effective condition monitoring of wind
turbines [ 21] as an alternative to conventional techniques based on analysis of vibration
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 6 of 26
and lubrication oil. Although the use of electrical signals instead of vibrations for detection
of mechanical fault has been criticized due to lack of sensitivity—for instance concerning
bearing faults [ 22], various recent publications address this topic. Fault prognosis and RUL
prediction for WT gearboxes uses current signal analysis in [ 23]. The healthy condition of
PMSGs is evaluated in the presence of rotor eccentricity and bearing cage faults in [ 24].
Current signature analysis is used as an alternative to vibration analysis for monitoring of
mechanical faults in [25] with application in industrial motors.
A trend in recent CM developments is the adoption of machine learning and artiﬁcial
intelligence techniques as tools for improving the capabilities of existing and new tech-
nologies. Machine learning is the process of building a model that learns from a limited
amount of data without specialist intervention. In this context, learning means ﬁtting
model’s parameters to a speciﬁc dataset. Most adopted models are regression models that
predict a numeric value, and classiﬁers that predict a categorical variable. A comprehensive
review of machine learning methods for wind turbine condition monitoring is given in [ 26].
Applications of machine learning for detection of electrical faults in PM machines are
scarce, some examples are found in [27–29].
Modeling developments for the RUL prediction of critical WT components are re-
viewed in [ 30,31], including physics-based and data-driven models (e.g., artiﬁcial
intelligence—neural networks and machine learning, stochastic, and hybrid) for prognos-
tics. Very few are employed for predicting the time of generator electrical failures. Physics-
based models require knowledge and modeling of the degradation process, whereas
data-driven models transform data into models without necessarily providing understand-
ing of the failure mechanism. It is concluded in [ 30] that hybrid methods are the most
accurate tools. Such an approach is proposed that uses SCADA data to provide information
on operating and environmental conditions, physics- and regression-based methods to
estimate the current state of the component’s condition, and a Bayesian algorithm for
estimation of the RUL.
4. Direct Drive PMSGs for Wind T urbines
The most common conﬁguration of wind energy conversion systems (WECS) for
offshore installation is called Type 4 in the literature [ 32] and composed of a transformer,
full scale power converter, electrical generator, an optional gearbox, and a rotor with three
blades. Direct drive wind turbines avoid gearboxes by means of synchronous generators
with high torque and high pole numbers. Permanent magnet synchronous generators
are preferred and currently deployed by various manufacturers—SGRE, Vestas, and GE.
Back-to-back voltage source power converters are standard, providing variable speed
operation and decoupled control of grid and generator sides. Digital control systems are
complex—turbine and converter controllers—and their numerous sensors and control
signals provide opportunities for condition monitoring and fault detection. Moreover,
closed-loop control systems can alter fault signatures, and they must be addressed for
developing CM methods. SCADA systems are present in all wind farms and data may be
exploited for CM. Even though SCADA data can be used for anomaly detection by training
models of normal operating conditions of a wind turbine (performance monitoring), it
is unable to capture fast dynamics and provide fault discrimination to the required level.
Additionally, dedicated condition monitoring systems are installed, typically vibration or
oil analysis is carried out with additional sensors and digital signal processors (DSPs).
Direct drive (DD) turbines are the ones from Type 4 WECS of interest in this paper,
which drive train has one fewer component—the gearbox-always on the spotlight of CM.
Their largest and most expensive components are the generator and the rotor blades, thus
deserving the attention of CM efforts. In other words, the design choice of removing the
gearbox is expected to increase availability, assuming a DD generator is more reliable
than a conventional generator with gearbox. However, less mature CM methods for DD
generators may compromise availability and service costs, if detection happens at late
stages of fault development.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 7 of 26
A brief introduction to PMSGs and their control system under healthy operating
conditions is given next. These fundamentals are trivial for many electrical engineers, but
they aid other readers understanding later discussions about the drive’s faulty operation.
High torque density PMSGs are desired for compact wind turbines, and they are
usually designed to operate close to the nonlinear region for better usage of the electro-
magnetic materials. This makes sinusoidal ﬂux linkages difﬁcult to achieve by means of
machine design optimization techniques [ 33], resulting inevitably in torque, current and
voltage harmonics. Typically, torque ripples varying periodically with the rotor position
at six times the electrical frequency (6th order harmonic) result from dominant 5th and
7th harmonics in the back-emf. Additional torque ripples may appear due to manufactur-
ing imperfections [ 34]-2nd order harmonic—and in fault-tolerant modes, for instance, a
multi-phase machines operating with a reduced number of phases [35].
Control of the generator-side converter is typically based on vector control as described
in textbooks [ 32] but may include additional features. As an example, control solutions for
torque ripple minimization are mandatory in wind turbine applications to reduce acoustic
noise and fatigue, allowing manufacturers to meet noise standards and component life-
time targets. Torque ripple minimization is achieved by means of stator current injection,
producing a counteracting torque ripple component. For the desired harmonic current
injection, closed-loop harmonic current controllers can be speciﬁcally designed to achieve
zero steady-state errors and satisfactory dynamic performance [ 36–38]. These remarks
regarding generator current control are relevant for fault diagnosis because fault signatures
based on harmonic analysis of electrical signals (current, voltage, power) can be altered by
the chosen control algorithms and parameters.
Standard PMSG drives include current and voltage transducers for measurements
of generator phase currents and DC link voltage, respectively. Other relevant feedback
signals are obtained in closed-loop operation by means of controller’s outputs—reference
converter voltages—and observers—rotor position and speed. Therefore, the requirement
for direct measurement of any other quantities is expected to increase complexity and cost
of the system. Although control signals are continuously measured and contain useful
information about the health condition of the wind turbine and the drivetrain components,
they are seldom used for CM.
Advanced digital control schemes greatly rely on the reference frame theory to simplify
the design of algorithms. Reference frame theory uses mathematical transformations to
simplify the analysis of three-phase systems. Starting with the example of a balanced
and harmonic free three-phase system for simplicity of illustration: (1) in the natural ( abc)
reference frame—as measured by sensors, three-phase variables are time-varying ( AC) and
phase displaced by 120; (2) in the stationary ( ab) reference frame, two-phase variables are
time-varying ( AC) and phase displaced by 90; and (3) in the synchronous ( dq) reference
frame, two-phase variables are time-invariant ( DC). In the presence of harmonics, analysis
is also simpliﬁed by employing dqframe instead of abcframe. For example, 5th and 7th
harmonics in abc appear as 6th harmonic in dq, matching the harmonic order of torque
ripple and vibration. Naturally, reference frame theory is also used for fault detection.
A few of the characteristic frequencies of a healthy drive PMSG as mentioned above
are results of generator non-idealities (2f, 6f and their multiples: 4f, 8f, 12f, 18f, etc, where f
stands for the fundamental electrical frequency), others result from the power converter
operation and are found in a higher frequency range—integer multiples of the PWM
frequency and sidebands [39].
The harmonics components present in dqcurrents ( id,iq) and ﬂux linkages ( yd,yq)
generate harmonics in electromagnetic torque:
Te=1.5p 
ydiq yqid
(1)
where pis the PMSG number of pole pairs. Accordingly, torque harmonics may excite
structural eigen modes and result in large acceleration levels.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 8 of 26
The various components of a generator are listed in Table 1, including mechanical,
electrical and electronic components prone to failure. Among the most common generator
failure modes are cooling system failures (heat exchanger pipework, hoses, and motor
failures), winding failures (insulation and connections failures, and contamination), bearing
failures (loss of lubrication, wear and failure of mechanical elements, electrically induced
failure), stator core failures (vibration, circulating current, hot spot), and demagnetization.
Table 1. List of components prone to fail in a DD PMSG.
Stator Rotor Support Structures Cooling Instrumentation
Winding insulation
(groundwall, interturn)
End windings
Core
WedgesPermanent magnetsBearings
Shaft
Stator support structure
Rotor houseHeat exchangers
Pipework
Fans
MotorsSensors
Acquisition systems
Controllers
High power generators tend to employ liquid cooling of stator windings, hence the
risk of leakages and consequent insulation deterioration exists. A well-known consequence
of water ingress in the ground-wall insulation is the drop of insulation resistance measured
between phase terminal and ground/frame.
A stator core fault is a rare event, most likely due to mechanical damage during
manufacturing and assembly.
Bearing faults may result from mechanical (radial and axial forces) and electrical
(bearing currents) stresses. Shaft induced voltages can lead to discharge and HF currents
across the bearing and later damages [ 40]. The rotor of a generator becomes eccentric
in the presence of bearing faults (static and/or dynamic eccentricity), causing unbalance
magnetic pull and increasing the bearing load and vibrations. Bearing health indicators
frequently used are derived from vibration, noise, temperatures, chemical characteristics of
the grease, and stator currents.
Rotor faults in PMSGs can be categorized in airgap eccentricity and demagnetization.
Eccentricity due to manufacturing errors (oval stator or misalignment between stator,
bearing and rotor), worn bearings, bent shaft, and asymmetric thermal expansion (rotor
or stator) results in non-uniform length of the radial airgap (between stator and rotor).
The stator position of minimum airgap length may be ﬁxed—static eccentricity—or vary
with rotor position—dynamic eccentricity. Unacceptable levels of eccentricity may end
up with stator-rotor rub, damaging PMs, stator insulation and core. Demagnetization
may occur due to manufacturing defects and operational stresses. It is worth noting that
PMs are sensitive to rotor temperature and stator current. An example of an operating
condition at risk of irreversible demagnetization is the occurrence of a short-circuit (SC)
fault at the highest allowable rotor temperature. This effect is commonly illustrated using
the BH curve at the temperature of concern—with the knee of the demagnetization curve
to be avoided to prevent irreversible demagnetization. Demagnetization can be partial or
uniform.
Winding failures are pointed out as major contributors for generators in wind turbines
to fail more often than anticipated [ 41]. A comparison of DFIG and PMG drives trains
in [42]—1800 DFIGs and 400 PMGs–shows that the PMSG has a lower failure rate. Perhaps
based on outdate information, in [ 43] is stated that DD generators are found to fail twice as
much than the geared counterparts, contradicting [ 11] as well as the authors’ experience.
From a sample of more than 1200 wind turbine generators [ 44], most winding insulation
failures were attributed to mechanical failure of the support structure. The effects of
humidity, salinity and water droplets on the generator winding insulation offshore WTs
are reviewed in [ 45]. These can increase the occurrence of partial discharges that can be
the reason and result of insulation degradation. Naturally, it is key to ensure dry air inside
the wind turbine nacelle, which can be achieved efﬁciently by means of dehumidiﬁers.
Premature failure is often attributed to production errors and/or harsh environmental
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 9 of 26
and operating conditions. Design defects must not be excluded when new products and
technologies are introduced.
5. Analysis of PMSG Faults
The health condition of a generator is ultimately related to the materials, design,
and stress/ageing mechanisms (thermal, electrical, ambient, and mechanical). Generator
components and their failure modes were introduced in the previous section, and the major
fault types of PMSGs can be summarized as:
 Stator insulation faults resulting in open-circuit or short-circuit faults;
 Abnormal connection of the stator windings;
 Static and/or dynamic airgap eccentricity due to damaged support structures (bearing,
shaft, stator support structures);
 Demagnetization of permanent magnets.
Analysis of these faults has shown a combination of the symptoms listed below:
 Increased discharged activity (partial discharges);
 Stray ﬂux or leakage currents;
 Unbalanced/asymmetric terminal voltages and currents;
 Harmonics in electrical power;
 Increased torque pulsations;
 Increased noise and vibration;
 Increased losses and reduction in efﬁciency, and decrease of average torque;
 Excessive heating;
 Smoke.
Examples of electrical and magnetic faults with high importance for PMSGs are de-
scribed in detail with the aid of Figures 2–4. Core faults are the rarest events, which
typically result from mechanical damage and shorted lamination sheets that allow circulat-
ing currents in the stator core. Subsequently, the core may heat up to temperatures that
cause materials to expand and melt till ground-wall insulation failure and earth fault occur.
Core faults are not addressed further in this paper.
Machines  2021 , 9, 260 10 of 26 
 
 Increase of discharge activity is common to insu lation ageing and local/isolated faults that 
precede insulation puncture. 
In short, generator failure by simply ageing of insulation (lifetime exceed) is a rare 
event, instead it occurs due to a variety of defects and stress mechanisms described above. 
Insulation degradation changes chemical and dielectric characteristics of insulating 
materials till conductors are no longer insula ted, which causes short-circuit faults: inter-
turn faults and ground faults (Figure 2). An interturn fault due to breakdown of turn in-
sulation leads to circulating currents, excessive  heating if rated turn current is exceeded, 
and further degradation of the insulation. Accordingly, an interturn fault may evolve quickly to a phase-ground fault and result in  generator breakdown. Timely short-circuit 
fault detection aims to prevent local temperat ure increase, loss of material due to exces-
sively high temperatures (insulation, copper, iron), smoke and potential fire. Symptoms 
prior to short-circuit fault are difficult to mo nitor, such as partial discharges, leakage cur-
rents, and local temperature increase. Literature most widely addressed signatures appear only after short-circuit fault: electrical an d magnetic asymmetry, vibrations, etc. There-
fore, the latter ones are in general unsuited for insulation condition monitoring and per-
haps of limited value for the wind industry. Fault tolerant generato rs present themselves 
as an exception, making use of FD to  trigger post-fault  operating modes. 
 
Figure 2. Illustration of stator winding insulation failure mechanism. 
The circulating current is an important para meter for the analysis of interturn faults, 
depending on the fault severity (number of shorted tuns) and loca tion, generator param-
eters, and operating conditions. Its amplitude is  calculated analytically in [46]. Analysis 
of inter-turn short-circuit (SC) faults in [47] shows how the fault/circulating current 
changes significantly with the number of sh orted turns and predicts  hotspot temperature 
by means of electromagnetic-thermal coupled model. One turn shorted is the worst-case 
scenario with the highest fault current, which decreases as the number of shorted turns increases. The coupling effect—electro-ther mal—is found important because the high 
temperature rise results in the increase of the fault resistance, which reduces predicted 
fault current and hotspot temperature. The vari ous factors that affect the amplitude of the 
SC current in PMSMs are investigated in [48]  based on an FEM model, namely load, speed, 
fault location and branch inductance. Remarks are made with regards to current and volt-
age harmonics, current differences between pa rallel branches, and torque ripples (2nd, 
4th and 8th harmonics). It is concluded that inductances of the short-circuit turns depend 
strongly on the fault location (e.g., top versus bottom of the tooth), and a large branch inductance reduces SC current. 
Reviews of modeling approaches for interturn faults in PMSMs are found in [49,50], 
which are categorizes as: electrical equivalent circuit based methods (consider machine Phase-to-Ground 
Short-Circ uit Fault
HotspotPartial discharges
Le akage cur rentsThermal asymmetryInsulation
Degradation
Interturn
Short-Circuit Fault
Circulating Current Ground Current
Smoke
Loss of MaterialElectromagnetic asymmetry
Thermal asymmetryVibrations
Figure 2. Illustration of stator winding insulation failure mechanism.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 10 of 26
Machines  2021 , 9, 260 11 of 26 
 
 geometry: winding function theory [51]), magn etic equivalent circuit based methods (con-
sider geometry, magnetic materials, and wi nding distribution), and numerical methods 
(solve Maxwell’s equations: FEM [52,53]). FEM are the most accurate and computational 
demanding. Concerning fault-tolerant PMSMs, analytical models for prediction of induct-ances and short-circuit current are presented in [54,55]. Modeling of surface mounted 
PMSMs with stator interturn faults is addressed analytically in [56,57] in abc and dq0 
frame. A magnetic equivalent model is proposed in [58] for high accuracy and real time 
simulations. An equivalent circuit model in [59] employs inductance matrices from FE 
simulations to conclude that interturn fault severity must consider both number of shorted turns and fault resistance. 
Connection faults also called high resistance  or loose connections are found at termi-
nal connections as well as internal generator connections (e.g., parallel branches and/or 
segments). The connection failure mechanism is illustrated in Figure 3, often initiated with 
production errors (e.g., a poorly torqued bolted connection). At the nacelle of a wind tur-bine, environmental and operating conditions  accelerate fault development. In other 
words, vibration and heat facilitate the increase of contact resistance and connection tem-
perature. Failure causes an op en-circuit fault and electrical asymmetry. The debris from 
burnt insulation and metal may create a conducting path between phases or between 
phase and ground, thus a short-circuit fault ma y be detected too. Early detection of con-
nection faults is attempted with visual and physical inspection, PD measurements and 
thermography. Fault signatures are to some exte nt the same as for insulation faults, thus 
similarly challenging to detect at an early st age of fault development. However, fault de-
tection is perhaps good enough in this scenario (e.g., based on electrical asymmetry), pro-
vided that a minor connection repair can be carried out on site as opposed to a major 
repair following insulation failure. 
Demagnetization is another important type of faults for PMGs, which failure mech-
anism is shown in Figure 4. Having insured high production quality, operational stresses are of extreme importance for the performanc e of PMGs, since exceeding temperature and 
current limits can cause irreversible demagnetization. Demagnetization can be partial or 
uniform, each showing distinct fault signatures due to changes in back-emf harmonics 
and fundamental amplitude, respectively. The variation of the magnetic saturation of the 
stator core is the signature exploited in [60,61]. 
 
Figure 3. Illustration of stator connection failure mechanism. Contact Resistance ↑ Poor Stator
Connections
Temperature ↑ 
Open-Circuit Fault
Figure 3. Illustration of stator connection failure mechanism.
Machines  2021 , 9, 260 12 of 26 
 
  
Figure 4. Illustration of demagnetization failure mechanism. 
6. Offline Testing of PMSGs 
Offline methods have been developed for accurate measurements, and their applica-
tion is twofold: (1) factory testing ensures ge nerators at the end of the production line are 
fit for purpose; and (2) periodic monitoring assesses health condition throughout the gen-
erator design lifetime. 
In service offline tests require at least a short outage of the wind turbine, and often 
require technicians to isolate the machine, install measurement equipment, and carry out 
the test. This monitoring approach is obviousl y undesired for offshore WTs. Alternatively, 
offline testing is done when online monitoring indicates the need for extra data for health 
assessment, or by equipment permanently installed in the WT for automatic offline test-ing. This is justified by the fact that degradation symptoms are difficult to measure in real-
time during generator operation and remain undetected by conventional protection sys-
tems till catastrophic failure. 
In addition to the obvious disadvantage that  offline tests must be done at discrete 
times by forcing or waiting for a stop of the WT, offline tests are also carried at operating 
conditions that differ from no rmal operation (temperature, vibration, current, etc.), thus 
under different stress mechanisms that ma y contribute to erroneous assessment. 
Various methods for offline testing are described extensively in [62]. Many of those 
are described in IEEE and IEC standards [63–65], and a review of IEEE standards for gen-
erator winding insulation diagnostic testing is found in [66]. The petrochemical industry is given as an application example of both offline and online methods for condition mon-
itoring of stator insulation in [67]. 
In this section, the most commonly used offline tests for evaluation of stator winding 
insulation are introduced shortly. On the one hand, concerning testing of ground wall 
insulation, there are several options: insulation  resistance (IR) and polarization index (PI), 
DC and AC high potential (Hipot) tests, capacitance, dissipation factor, and partial dis-
charges (PD). On the other hand, concerning testing of turn and phase insulation, there 
are fewer options and the surge test is the only  reliable one [68]. Additionally, poor stator 
connections may be identified by means of th ermal imaging. Examples of offline tests car-
ried out by the converter controller are also included. 
6.1. Insulation Resistan ce and Polarization Index 
The first offline test of stator windings to be undertaken is probably always the meas-
urement of insulation resistance (IR), i.e., the resistance between the conductors and the 
stator core, often known as Megger™ test (p opular vendor of me asurement instrumenta-
tion). The test is performed by applying high voltage be tween generator winding termi-
nals and stator core (or frame) and measuring current to calculate resistance. High re-
sistance values are expected for a healthy ground wall insulation system able to perform 
its basic function of blocking current flow  between winding and core. The polarization Local 
DemagnetizationPerman en t Magnet 
Degradation
Uniform 
Demagnetization
Elec tromagne tic asymmetry
Thermal asymmetry
VibrationsBEMF ↓ 
Current ↑
Tem perat ure ↑
Figure 4. Illustration of demagnetization failure mechanism.
Starting with insulation failure as an example of generator failure mode, various
mechanisms can drive electrical breakdown of a dielectric component. It is well known
that insulating materials deteriorate faster at higher temperatures. The chemical reaction
governed by the Arrhenius rate law is often approximated by the rule of thumb that
says insulation lifetime decreases 50% for every temperature rise of 10C above rated
temperature. Design and production defects, and winding contamination can create
hotspots that accelerate insulation degradation locally. Contamination may hinder cooling
or make insulation surface conducting. High vibration levels can crack insulation materials.
Mechanical ageing is particularly prevalent in the stator end windings. The end-windings
of rotating machines are particularly prone to failure due mechanical (resonances, impact
by foreign objects), environmental (contamination), and electrical ageing. Electrical stress
as transient or surge voltages can result from switching of power converters and lightning
strikes. In PWM converter-fed machines, interturn fault tends to occur in the ﬁrst few turns
of the phase winding. Operation at high current, temperature and humidity accelerate
insulation ageing, therefore, all these variables must be controlled continuously for a
generator to remain within safe operating limits and reach design lifetime. Foreign objects
inside a generator are also a possible root cause of insulation damage by impact.
Partial discharge (PD) is a gas breakdown that occurs in insulation that has voids
from the manufacturing process and/or operating stresses, resulting in the emission of
heat, light, and sound. High energy discharges can erode insulation materials over time.
Slot discharge occurs between the surface of the stator coil and the grounded core steel,
when good electrical contact between the insulated coil surface and the stator core is lost.
Increase of discharge activity is common to insulation ageing and local/isolated faults that
precede insulation puncture.
In short, generator failure by simply ageing of insulation (lifetime exceed) is a rare
event, instead it occurs due to a variety of defects and stress mechanisms described above.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 11 of 26
Insulation degradation changes chemical and dielectric characteristics of insulating
materials till conductors are no longer insulated, which causes short-circuit faults: interturn
faults and ground faults (Figure 2). An interturn fault due to breakdown of turn insulation
leads to circulating currents, excessive heating if rated turn current is exceeded, and further
degradation of the insulation. Accordingly, an interturn fault may evolve quickly to a phase-
ground fault and result in generator breakdown. Timely short-circuit fault detection aims
to prevent local temperature increase, loss of material due to excessively high temperatures
(insulation, copper, iron), smoke and potential ﬁre. Symptoms prior to short-circuit fault
are difﬁcult to monitor, such as partial discharges, leakage currents, and local temperature
increase. Literature most widely addressed signatures appear only after short-circuit fault:
electrical and magnetic asymmetry, vibrations, etc. Therefore, the latter ones are in general
unsuited for insulation condition monitoring and perhaps of limited value for the wind
industry. Fault tolerant generators present themselves as an exception, making use of FD
to trigger post-fault operating modes.
The circulating current is an important parameter for the analysis of interturn faults,
depending on the fault severity (number of shorted tuns) and location, generator parame-
ters, and operating conditions. Its amplitude is calculated analytically in [ 46]. Analysis of
inter-turn short-circuit (SC) faults in [ 47] shows how the fault/circulating current changes
signiﬁcantly with the number of shorted turns and predicts hotspot temperature by means
of electromagnetic-thermal coupled model. One turn shorted is the worst-case scenario
with the highest fault current, which decreases as the number of shorted turns increases.
The coupling effect—electro-thermal—is found important because the high temperature
rise results in the increase of the fault resistance, which reduces predicted fault current
and hotspot temperature. The various factors that affect the amplitude of the SC current
in PMSMs are investigated in [ 48] based on an FEM model, namely load, speed, fault
location and branch inductance. Remarks are made with regards to current and voltage
harmonics, current differences between parallel branches, and torque ripples (2nd, 4th and
8th harmonics). It is concluded that inductances of the short-circuit turns depend strongly
on the fault location (e.g., top versus bottom of the tooth), and a large branch inductance
reduces SC current.
Reviews of modeling approaches for interturn faults in PMSMs are found in [ 49,50],
which are categorizes as: electrical equivalent circuit based methods (consider machine
geometry: winding function theory [ 51]), magnetic equivalent circuit based methods (con-
sider geometry, magnetic materials, and winding distribution), and numerical methods
(solve Maxwell’s equations: FEM [ 52,53]). FEM are the most accurate and computational
demanding. Concerning fault-tolerant PMSMs, analytical models for prediction of induc-
tances and short-circuit current are presented in [ 54,55]. Modeling of surface mounted
PMSMs with stator interturn faults is addressed analytically in [ 56,57] in abcand dq0
frame. A magnetic equivalent model is proposed in [ 58] for high accuracy and real time
simulations. An equivalent circuit model in [ 59] employs inductance matrices from FE
simulations to conclude that interturn fault severity must consider both number of shorted
turns and fault resistance.
Connection faults also called high resistance or loose connections are found at termi-
nal connections as well as internal generator connections (e.g., parallel branches and/or
segments). The connection failure mechanism is illustrated in Figure 3, often initiated
with production errors (e.g., a poorly torqued bolted connection). At the nacelle of a
wind turbine, environmental and operating conditions accelerate fault development. In
other words, vibration and heat facilitate the increase of contact resistance and connection
temperature. Failure causes an open-circuit fault and electrical asymmetry. The debris from
burnt insulation and metal may create a conducting path between phases or between phase
and ground, thus a short-circuit fault may be detected too. Early detection of connection
faults is attempted with visual and physical inspection, PD measurements and thermogra-
phy. Fault signatures are to some extent the same as for insulation faults, thus similarly
challenging to detect at an early stage of fault development. However, fault detection is
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 12 of 26
perhaps good enough in this scenario (e.g., based on electrical asymmetry), provided that a
minor connection repair can be carried out on site as opposed to a major repair following
insulation failure.
Demagnetization is another important type of faults for PMGs, which failure mecha-
nism is shown in Figure 4. Having insured high production quality, operational stresses
are of extreme importance for the performance of PMGs, since exceeding temperature and
current limits can cause irreversible demagnetization. Demagnetization can be partial or
uniform, each showing distinct fault signatures due to changes in back-emf harmonics and
fundamental amplitude, respectively. The variation of the magnetic saturation of the stator
core is the signature exploited in [60,61].
6. Ofﬂine Testing of PMSGs
Ofﬂine methods have been developed for accurate measurements, and their appli-
cation is twofold: (1) factory testing ensures generators at the end of the production line
are ﬁt for purpose; and (2) periodic monitoring assesses health condition throughout the
generator design lifetime.
In service ofﬂine tests require at least a short outage of the wind turbine, and often
require technicians to isolate the machine, install measurement equipment, and carry out
the test. This monitoring approach is obviously undesired for offshore WTs. Alternatively,
ofﬂine testing is done when online monitoring indicates the need for extra data for health
assessment, or by equipment permanently installed in the WT for automatic ofﬂine testing.
This is justiﬁed by the fact that degradation symptoms are difﬁcult to measure in real-time
during generator operation and remain undetected by conventional protection systems till
catastrophic failure.
In addition to the obvious disadvantage that ofﬂine tests must be done at discrete
times by forcing or waiting for a stop of the WT, ofﬂine tests are also carried at operating
conditions that differ from normal operation (temperature, vibration, current, etc.), thus
under different stress mechanisms that may contribute to erroneous assessment.
Various methods for ofﬂine testing are described extensively in [ 62]. Many of those are
described in IEEE and IEC standards [ 63–65], and a review of IEEE standards for generator
winding insulation diagnostic testing is found in [ 66]. The petrochemical industry is given
as an application example of both ofﬂine and online methods for condition monitoring of
stator insulation in [67].
In this section, the most commonly used ofﬂine tests for evaluation of stator winding
insulation are introduced shortly. On the one hand, concerning testing of ground wall
insulation, there are several options: insulation resistance (IR) and polarization index
(PI), DC and AC high potential (Hipot) tests, capacitance, dissipation factor, and partial
discharges (PD). On the other hand, concerning testing of turn and phase insulation, there
are fewer options and the surge test is the only reliable one [68]. Additionally, poor stator
connections may be identiﬁed by means of thermal imaging. Examples of ofﬂine tests
carried out by the converter controller are also included.
6.1. Insulation Resistance and Polarization Index
The ﬁrst ofﬂine test of stator windings to be undertaken is probably always the
measurement of insulation resistance (IR), i.e., the resistance between the conductors
and the stator core, often known as Megger ™test (popular vendor of measurement
instrumentation). The test is performed by applying high voltage between generator
winding terminals and stator core (or frame) and measuring current to calculate resistance.
High resistance values are expected for a healthy ground wall insulation system able
to perform its basic function of blocking current ﬂow between winding and core. The
polarization index (PI) test is a variation of the IR test, calculating the ratio of the IR
measured for 10 min to the IR measured for 1 min. IR and PI tests can provide the
indications of moisture absorption, contamination, or severe damage in the GW insulation.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 13 of 26
6.2. DC and AC Hipot Test
In a DC high potential (Hipot) test, DC voltage substantially higher than the rated peak
AC voltage is applied at the winding terminals. If the winding fails the test, ground wall
insulation has been punctured and repair is mandatory. As Hipot tests can be destructive,
they are used as factory test for new windings only. The DC Hipot test does not cause PD
nor age the winding insulation. In an AC Hipot test, AC voltage is used, which results in a
more uniform voltage distribution and stress across the insulation thickness. Accordingly,
major ﬂaws in the ground wall insulation are more likely detectable by AC Hipot.
6.3. Capacitance
Variation of the winding capacitance over time may serve as indicator of several
insulation issues, such as thermal ageing, humidity, and contamination. However, the
change of capacitance depends strongly on the stress mechanism, potentially increasing or
decreasing, which makes the analysis in presence of multiple issues difﬁcult. Capacitance
tends to decrease due to thermal ageing because solid insulation delaminates, which is
replaced with gas with a lower dielectric constant. Differently, capacitance increases if
insulation is saturated by moisture or end windings are contaminated by conductive
particles (e.g., dust). Moreover, the stress factor must affect the bulk of the insulation,
leaving localized issues undetected. The sensitivity of this test makes it best suited to assess
the average condition of the insulation.
6.4. Dissipation Factor
The dissipation factor provides a measure of the insulation dielectric loss, calculated as
the tangent of the phase angle between voltage and current measured across the insulation.
The phase angle differs from 90 degrees—a pure capacitor—and varies with the change of
dielectric loss. Dielectric loss increases with ageing and humidity.
6.5. Ofﬂine Partial Discharge
A partial discharge (PD) is a dielectric effect that causes short duration perturbations
of generator current and voltage waveforms. PD radiate electromagnetic, optical, acoustic
and thermal energy. PD can occur in voids anywhere in the winding insulation, couple
capacitively to the coil conductor, and travel to the winding terminals. The PD test enables
detection of the biggest defects, where failure is likely to originate. PD testing measures
the condition of the worst defect, thus being suitable for detection of local damages.
Ofﬂine PD tests measure the pulse currents resulting from PD within a winding
energized at rated line-to-ground voltage with high bandwidth transducers (from kHz to
MHz). During the test, voltage is increased gradually and the voltage at which the PD is
ﬁrst detected is called the discharge inception voltage (DIV). The voltage is then gradually
lowered and the voltage at which the PD is no longer discernible is the discharge extinction
voltage (DEV). DIV , DEV and peak PD magnitude are indicators of fault severity.
The most common hardware used for detecting PD is a high voltage capacitor con-
nected to the stator terminals. Other solutions employ high frequency current transformers,
Rogowski coils, and antennas. PD does not occur with sinusoidal supply below phase
voltages of 3 kV . However, in low voltage inverter-fed generators, short rise-time voltage
surges (high dV/dt) can cause PD.
Off-line PD results are not interpreted in isolation, instead they must be compared
against other test results used as reference of healthy condition. Such reference may be
obtained in several ways: (1) other phases or branches of the same generator; (2) other
generators of the same type; (3) trending results over time for one generator. Signiﬁcant
variations over time or between reference and generator under test are indicators of
insulation issues.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 14 of 26
6.6. Surge Voltage Test
The tests addressed above assess the condition of turn insulation indirectly only when
it is part of the groundwall insulation (e.g., form-wound stators), but not the insulation
between two adjacent turns. The surge voltage test is the only one that directly determines
the condition of the turn insulation. It is analogous to the Hipot tests for ground wall
insulation, applying a relatively high voltage surge (short duration and fast rise time pulse)
between the turns that punctures a weak enough insulation.
As opposed to detecting a ground fault in a fully assembled generator, detecting
interturn SC fault does not trigger overcurrent protections and becomes a non-trivial task.
Alternatively, measuring the winding resonant frequency before and after the surge test
can show the change in inductance due to interturn fault, but sensitivity is still an issue.
The surge test is a pass/fail test, but it can be combined with ofﬂine PD test to provide
indication of insulation condition. The surge PD test for CM of turn insulation is addressed
in [69].
6.7. Thermal Imaging
Testing a generator at high current levels and measuring temperature of connections
by means of a thermal imaging camera may allow detection of hotspots at connections.
However, this test is impractical for generators with complex and non-visible connections,
which would require testing at an early stage of the production line to prevent later
disassembly. Moreover, the stress imposed in a short duration test may be insufﬁcient to
cause a measurable hotspot, and the fault will become evident under normal operation of
the WT only.
6.8. Converter Ofﬂine Tests
Ofﬂine tests can be done regularly at a WT with permanently installed equipment,
for which the power converter is the most attractive candidate. Converter control self-
commissioning is used to determine system parameters and tune controllers, but it can
be extended to detect faults at standstill. Interturn and eccentricity faults are detected by
estimating phase impedances with signal injection when at standstill in [ 70]. Similar con-
cepts were explored previously, examples are the estimation of d-axis inductance through
a converter start-up routine for detection of airgap eccentricity [ 71] and demagnetiza-
tion [ 60,61]. It is worth noting that the explored concepts are related to magnetic saturation
and saliency—also for rotor position estimation with high-frequency signal injection—thus
opportunities for integration may exist at a low cost. A method based on estimation of
incremental inductance is proposed for detection of static eccentricity in rotational tests at
the end of the production line in [72].
Another ofﬂine test suitable for DD generators is the back-emf measurement for
condition monitoring of permanent magnets [ 73], if voltage sensors are ﬁtted. As opposed
to other applications, this test is well suited for WTs because blade pitch control allows the
WT to regulate its rotational speed even though the generator is disconnected.
7. Online Fault Detection for PMSGs
Online FD makes use of instrumentation that is permanently installed in a WT to
measure relevant quantities continuously. This section addresses electromagnetic measure-
ments such as magnetic ﬂux density, current, voltage, and power. Current measurements
are widely available for control and protections functions, whereas the availability of others
depend strongly on the requirements of the application. Some examples are search coils
for airgap or stray ﬂux measurement, voltage sensors for back-emf measurement, and
Rogowski coils to capture the high-frequency content in the neutral current. It is worth
reminding the reader that this section on online FD is limited to detecting faults, and in
most cases the discussed methods are unsuitable for providing health status information.
Faults disrupt the internal symmetry of the generator, and the effects are changes to its
electromagnetic variables. A large portion of the state-of-the-art addresses the asymmet-
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 15 of 26
ric/unbalanced condition of an electrical machine for the sake of FD, which ends up being
common to various fault types and making fault discrimination difﬁcult to achieve.
A rich literature is available in the ﬁeld of FD based on electromagnetic signals for
electrical drives, and publications cover several electrical machine types and industrial
applications. The review carried out in this section does not discriminate between types of
machines and application, provided that the contributions are relevant for FD in PMSG
drives. To start with, the authors acknowledge the numerous reviews already published
concerning fault diagnosis of electrical machines [ 49,74–80], with special attention being
given to interturn faults that remain an open research topic. The limitations of the state-of-
the-art are exposed, which concern robustness against false alarms, sensitivity, and fault
discrimination. Airgap and stray ﬂux analysis are pointed out as one of the most promising
research trends, however their ability to provide earlier and more reliable warnings and
enable fault prognostics in MW generators is still to be demonstrated.
Signal processing methods are used to extract characteristics of interest (so-called
features) from the monitored variables, such as FFT (fast Fourier transform), time-frequency
methods (Hilbert–Huang and wavelet transforms), Park’s vector-based approaches, sym-
metrical components, multiple reference frame theory, and more.
7.1. Stator Current Signature Analysis
Analysis of stator current has shown to be a viable technique, capable of detecting
faults in electrical and mechanical components of a generator. A fault disturbs the rotating
magnetic ﬁeld and introduces a characteristic frequency in the stator current that depends
on the type of fault [ 81–84]. Phase current must be measured in at least one phase of the
generator, and the signal processed by the preferred method. Some of the characteristic
harmonics created in PMG phase currents by stator faults, partial demagnetization, and
airgap eccentricity may coincide.
7.2. Unbalanced Current, Voltage, and Power Signals
By taking advantage of the information contained in asymmetric three phase quanti-
ties, various methods were proposed and showed advantageous when compared to the
stator current signature analysis. The pattern of the current Park’s Vector representation
becomes elliptic in the presence of inter-turn short-circuit faults [ 85], as opposed to the
circular shape under healthy operation. The extended Park’s vector approach (EPVA) relies
on the spectral analysis of the current Park’s Vector modulus [ 86], with the component
at twice the supply frequency associated to a stator asymmetry. As an alternative to the
analysis of negative sequence component of the stator current, a method based on the
multiple reference frame theory was proposed in [ 87]. In the dqframe, 2nd order harmonic
components can be used for interturn SC fault detection [ 88]. Alternative and simple
mathematical manipulation of phase currents’ amplitude is proposed in [89].
The voltage signature analysis is many times similar to the current signature analysis
with the requirement to either measure voltages or access voltage references of the power
converter. Drawbacks are the need for extra sensors and adequate ﬁltering for measured
signals, or errors in reference signals. Synchronous demodulation is used to extract the
magnitude of the second harmonic of the dqvoltage references in [ 90], allowing interturn
fault detection. Diagnostic signals for SC faults are derived from positive and negative
sequences of voltage references in [ 91]. Measured voltage signals are processed based
on the symmetrical component theory in [ 92]. The analysis of dq-axes voltage references
is used in [ 93] to detect and classify three fault types: eccentricity, demagnetization and
interturn SC fault. Amplitude and initial phase angles of zero sequence voltage components
(ZSVC) are analyzed in [ 94]. Approaches based on ZSVC tend to require access to the
generator neutral point. A method based on the 1st harmonic of ZSVC showed improved
performance when compared to the 3rd harmonic of the stator currents in [ 95]. For
detection of low severity interturn faults in [ 96], zero-sequence voltages are derived from
the converter PWM pattern, and a method based on vector decomposition was proposed.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 16 of 26
Instantaneous active and reactive power signature analysis appears as a promising
approach that combines information contained in both current and voltage signals. The
2nd harmonic in instantaneous power signals is used for detection of short-circuit and
open-circuit fault detection [ 97], and high resistance connections [ 98]. The instantaneous
active power is preferred for interturn fault detection in PMSGs [ 99], and the diagnostic
signals of multiple three-phase sets can be compared against each other to reduce operating
point dependence and improve immunity against transients.
Closed-loop control algorithms implemented in the converter controller impact many
of the proposed diagnostic signals. The 2nd harmonic in q-axis current was found de-
pendent on the gains of ﬁeld-oriented control in [ 100]. Concerning DTC, third harmonic
in supply currents is observed in [ 101] for both residual stator asymmetry and interturn
faults, thus the authors suggest using the multiple reference frames technique. Recent
publications address model predictive control (MPC) in the presence of interturn faults and
show that signatures are affected by control parameter variations [ 102]. The instantaneous
reactive power dependence on the current controller bandwidth is tackled in [ 103] by an
alternative diagnostic signal derived as a weighted average of voltages and currents. The
current controllers’ effects concerning demagnetization detection by the stator current
signature is presented in [ 104]. In conclusion, FD methods must be evaluated together
with the closed-loop control system because signatures and fault detection thresholds are
expected to depend on chosen control strategies and parameters. Accordingly, distinguish-
ing between generator faults and faults in control or converter hardware turns out to a be
challenging task that industrial applications must deal with.
Moreover, temperature and manufacturing tolerances can affect negatively the ca-
pabilities of FD methods [ 29,34]. The resulting variations of the values assumed by the
diagnostic signals may force to increase thresholds and prevent detection of low severity
faults. Alternatively, the complexity of the algorithms is required to increase to compensate
the considered effects.
High-resistance electrical connections are many times addressed by the same tech-
niques as interturn faults. Negative-sequence current and zero-sequence voltage are both
deemed suitable for detection of high-resistance connections [ 105], and their phase is used
for discriminating between these high-resistance connections and interturn faults in [ 106].
The control strategy is modiﬁed to include current controllers in multiple reference frames,
whose outputs provide the fault signatures in [107–109].
7.3. Model-Based Approaches
Model-based strategies have also been adopted for interturn fault detection. An open-
loop physics-based estimator enables the comparison between estimated and reference
back-EMF in [ 110], and the difference is used for detecting interturn faults. An observer
estimates currents, which are compared against measured currents to generate a residual
vector in [ 111]. Negative-sequence voltage components are calculated by means of a
machine model in [ 112]. A high-ﬁdelity FE-based model of the healthy machine is deployed
to generate current residuals in [ 113]. Temperature estimation of electrical machines has
been an active research topic for decades, with many publications addressing sensorless
estimation of average stator and rotor temperatures. It can be achieved by means of
estimation of temperature dependent machine parameters—stator resistance and PM ﬂux.
The error between distinct temperature estimates provided by thermal and electrical models
is used for condition monitoring in [ 114]. Rotor temperature estimation for PMSMs based
on measured currents and voltages is addressed in [115].
7.4. Signal Injection
Current or voltage signal injection by the power converter under operation has been
suggested for fault detection. Even though operation and efﬁciency of the drive are
disturbed, fault signatures are less dependent on operating conditions. DC-signal injection
was used for detection of high-resistance connection in [ 116,117]. High frequency signal
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 17 of 26
injection was used for detection of interturn faults in [ 118]. As an alternative to the
injection of an additional HF signal, the current ripple due to PWM is exploited in [ 119].
The discrimination between high-resistance connections and interturn faults was addressed
by means of multiple HF signals in [ 120], and by analyzing the symmetry of HF currents
in [121].
7.5. Flux Monitoring
Flux monitoring concerns airgap and stray ﬂux measurements. Airgap ﬂux mea-
surements require sensor installation inside the machine, which is considered a proven
technology in some industries [ 122]. Search coils [ 123] and FBG magnetostrictive sen-
sors [ 124] have been proposed for PM machines. Design, installation, and maintenance
of such devices is challenging and avoided by WT manufacturers in serial produced
generators.
Stray ﬂux measurements are non-invasive with sensors installed externally to the
machine. Therefore, recent research on ﬂux monitoring focus on stray ﬂux due to ease of
sensors’ installation in the frame of the machine. These academic publications addressed
small size machines, but never large generators. Although there is an increasing number of
publications pursuing advances in this ﬁeld, the present technology readiness level is low,
which is evident in the lack of reported ﬁeld test results.
Axial and radial external magnetic ﬁelds are studied under the underlying principle
that asymmetries introduced by faults in the airgap and/or end winding magnetic ﬁelds
are measurable externally to the machine. Even though signals are attenuated by the stator
core and frame, it has been claimed that spectral analysis of external magnetic ﬁelds is
more sensitive than stator current analysis [ 76]. Most used sensors are search coils and HE
sensors, varying in location and number. Additionally, modeling and computing external
magnetic ﬁelds is a non-trivial task that requires complex FE models.
Two external ﬂux sensors are placed in the vicinity of the machine and positioned
180apart from each other in a circumference centered with the machine axis in [125,126].
The variations of the amplitude of the spectral components of the two signals enabled
detection of interturn SC faults. The 3rd harmonic of stray ﬂux is proposed in [ 127], and
fault location possible by means of multiple sensors. Three sensors spatially displaced by
120 electrical degrees are installed in the machine’s frame in [ 128], and a method based on
the Park’s ﬂux vector shows superior sensitivity when compared to other techniques for
detection of low severity interturn faults.
7.6. Innovative Approaches
A few examples of innovative approaches are also found in the literature. Arc fault
detection based on the current waveform in [ 129]. An optical ﬁber sensor installed in
the stator core for strain and temperature measurements to identify faults in bearing
elements [ 130]. Early detection of interturn short-circuit fault by a ﬁber Bragg grating
(FBG) sensor in situ to monitor winding internal thermal excitation is suggested in [ 131],
enabling single turn–turn fault detection and fault location. An array of discrete infra-red
sensors mounted along the inner wall of the stators’ casing is proposed in [ 132] for online
monitoring of end windings, enabling detection of hotspots due to interturn SC faults. The
number of required sensors was 16 for a 1.5 kW motor, which could increase drastically
for a large diameter MW generator. An additional array of hall-effect sensors is presented
in [133] and claimed to be advantageous.
8. Condition Monitoring of PMSGs
The ultimate goal of condition monitoring of generators is to predict the time of failure,
enabling condition-based maintenance.
Fault prognosis, as opposed to diagnosis, is a process to predict the evolution of
an undesirable condition (fault) till failure—when the generator no longer operates as
desired. The predicted time to failure is often called estimated remaining useful life (RUL),
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 18 of 26
which is obtained by means of models. The prediction is only useful if accurate in a short
conﬁdence interval, allowing service teams to initiate maintenance activities timely and
prevent downtime. Prognosis is based on trending over time a sequence of measurements
that depend on the condition of the component being monitored. In other words, the
selected features must vary as per the evolution of the fault. Initial lifetime assessment
is performed at the design stage with aid of physics-based models that relate to known
degradation processes. RUL estimation in service is performed with data-driven models,
physics-based models, or a combination of both.
Understanding that detecting a fault and warning the service team minutes in advance
of catastrophic failure does not fall within useful fault prognostics. This section addresses
methods that can observe slow evolving manifestations of generator winding insulation
faults, ideally providing valuable information to service teams for planning maintenance
weeks in advance.
In this context, online PD detection has been in the spotlight of academia and industry
for long years [ 62]. On-line partial discharge testing is claimed to ﬁnd loose, overheated,
and contaminated windings well before these problems lead to failure [ 134]. It is widely
used in some applications [135], but not in the wind industry.
On-line PD detection is very similar to the previously described ofﬂine PD test. The
main differences are that the noise becomes a more prominent issue, and the frequency
range of interest increases (e.g., 30–300 MHz). Sensors are capacitors on the generator
terminals, antennas, and high-frequency current transformers.
Signal processing to discriminate PD signals from electrical noise is of paramount
importance to eliminate pulses originated somewhere else (power lines, inverters, etc.).
The increasing PWM frequencies with silicon carbide devices worsen the issue of noise
separation. The relative time of arrival and the shape of the pulse are characteristics
analyzed often.
PD data under comparison must have been logged under similar operating conditions,
because PD activity depends on factors such as stator voltage and current, humidity, and
winding temperature. It is worth noting that new windings tend to produce higher PD
activity, thus the ﬁrst few months of data may be of limited use for CM, unless infant mor-
tality becomes obvious in PD indicators. Other observations made are that PD indicators
tend to level off after signiﬁcant degradation took place, but they may plummet when
failure is imminent. Historical and present issues with online PD are discussed in [ 135].
In short, early start of PD activity and slow progress are very desired characteristics for
fault prognostics. However, predicting accurately time to failure is still difﬁcult. Machine
learning methods for CM based on PD detection are reviewed in [136].
Online monitoring of winding insulation capacitance and dissipation factor by mea-
suring the differential leakage-current for each phase was introduced in [ 137,138]. The
measurement of the current through the insulation requires a high sensitivity current
transformer (HSCT) to be placed around the combined high voltage and neutral leads of
a wye-connected stator winding. This technique determines the average condition of the
winding insulation, for instance, thermal ageing causes the capacitance to decrease over
time. Test results during accelerated life testing are presented in [ 139]. The use of a single
HSCT to measure common mode insulation leakage current was ﬁrst proposed in [ 140],
and further investigated in accelerated life tests [ 141] and in the presence of humidity [ 142].
The development of the measurement equipment was also presented in [ 143,144]. The
estimation of the insulation RUL was proved feasible under thermal ageing in [ 141] by
calculating an equivalent capacitance value from harmonics of the PWM frequency. The
issue of monitoring groundwall and phase-to-phase separately is studied in [145].
9. Experience with Stator Winding Failure
Several industry surveys have helped to identify the most prone to fail components
in electrical machines. Statistics given by these have been used as the motivations for
hundreds of research papers. Recently, the experience of Korea Electric Power Corporation
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 19 of 26
Research Institute with stator insulation testing and failures in the power generation
industry was discussed in [ 68], together with a critical review of existing methods for
condition monitoring of turn insulation. Such studies are rarely this thorough, thus some
of the valuable insights provided are summarized next. The implementation of periodic
ofﬂine testing and condition-based maintenance contributed to signiﬁcantly reduce failures
due to stator groundwall (GW) insulation breakdown. Accordingly, most of the recent
failures were caused by turn or phase insulation breakdown due to lack of suitable testing
methods. Most of the turn insulation failures have been observed to occur in the terminal
end of the stator—the end-winding near the slot exit—and attributed to high voltage stress.
End-winding turn insulation is likely more vulnerable to failure due to manufacturing
processes, vibration, and thermal expansion. Interturn faults at the end-windings can occur
and remain undetected without causing GW insulation failure. The lack of acceptance of
online interturn FD by the industry is attributed to its limited value, which is to reduce the
extent of the damage after a short-circuit fault occurs. It is also stressed that undetected
turn faults did not cause stator core damages. Finally, it is concluded that research of new
methods for turn insulation condition monitoring and their validation are needed.
Concerning the authors’ experience with DD PMGs for offshore WTs, the fact that
existing ﬂeets are young and located remotely results in the available information about
generator stator testing and failures being less insightful. High availability levels of DD
turbines—between 97% and 99%—align with a very low number of winding insulation
failures. To the authors’ knowledge, the limited number of failures tend to occur in the ﬁrst
months of operation due to insufﬁciently tightened stator connections or foreign objects
in airgap and end-windings. These issues were neither detected by factory ofﬂine testing
of winding insulation nor by rotational tests at the end of the production line. Periodic
ofﬂine testing is unpractical and such a data base does not exist for offshore generators.
Accordingly, the observations discussed next are found most valuable for the sake of
online FD.
End-winding interturn SC fault can remain undetected by ground fault protection
till smoke is detected. In other words, an interturn insulation failure does not inevitably
evolve quickly to a groundwall insulation failure. As opposed to the remarks in [ 68],
resuming operation of a faulty generator caused damages to increase signiﬁcantly, thus
exposing that there is value in online FD of interturn faults. Despite recognizing its
value, the acceptance of state-of-the-art methods like the ones based on electromagnetic
asymmetry has been low due to their shortfalls. The challenges with the deployment of
such methods were addressed throughout this paper, and again stressed here based on WT
ﬂeet data. Fault signatures have shown to vary little with low severity faults, and depend
on operating conditions (current, speed, temperature), generator manufacturing tolerances,
and abnormal behaviors of converter hardware or software. In summary, there is the need
for methods that are more robust, more sensitive, capable of discriminating fault types,
and seamless integrated with the converter control system.
High-resistance connections appear to worsen quickly under operation due to thermal
expansion and vibrations. As opposed to interturn fault detection, asymmetry-based
methods appear to be ﬁt for detection of high-resistance connections. Available data has
shown that a fault can evolve to an open-circuit fault in a time window of a few seconds,
contradicting usual descriptions of a slow fault development process.
Experience has showed that standard vibration monitoring systems are unsuited for
early detection of electrical faults. However, it is worth stressing that fault signatures do
exist in vibration signals, which can provide opportunities for improving fault detection
in WTs.
10. Fault-Tolerant PMSGs
Fault-tolerant (FT) systems can add high business value when only fault detection is
possible. A fault-tolerant generator can continue operation under given conditions after
a fault occurrence, preventing a long and costly downtime. The so-called fault-tolerant
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 20 of 26
operation may be achieved automatically by the controller, or only manually after on-site
intervention by technicians.
Possibilities for post-fault operation depend strongly on the generator design and the
fault itself (type, location, severity level) when concerning interturn SC faults. Reviews of
FT PM machines are found in [ 146,147]. Multi-phase fractional slot concentrated winding
machines together with FT control [ 146], and modiﬁed winding conﬁgurations to limit
the interturn SC current [ 55] are suggested. Machine topologies able to tolerate interturn
SC faults tend to inherit lower efﬁciency and power density (large inductance and low
power factor). The conﬂict between efﬁciency, power density and fault-tolerant capability
requirements during the design process is illustrated in [ 148]. Therefore, fault-tolerant
generators may offer little advantage when compared to other design choices for achieving
high reliability like insulation thickness, cooling, and rated operating temperatures.
The control system may attempt to extend the generator lifetime by constraining
operating conditions and reducing fault current—perhaps possible at early stage of fault
development. The study in [ 46] suggests limiting the operating speed, restricting torque,
and starting ﬁeld-weakening to enable post-fault operation.
Another possible approach for enabling post-fault operation after an insulation failure
is to cut and bypassed faulty coils—adopted for hydro generator in [ 149]. Such remedial
action aims to reduce downtime, enabling de-rated operation before a full repair is possible.
It is worth noting that the applicability of this solution depends on the generator design
and fault type, for instance, it may address end-winding insulation failures.
Regarding high-resistance connections, multiphase generators offer the possibility to
operate with the healthy phases only provided that the power output is reduced. Taking a
dual three-phase generator as an example, the faulty three-phase system is disconnected,
whereas the healthy one keeps running. The described FT drive is often designed to
provide continuous operation in the presence of power converter faults.
11. Conclusions and Research Challenges
Condition monitoring (CM) has been proved proﬁtable for the wind industry. Analysis
of vibrations and oil are widely used for CM of wind turbines concerning mechanical
components such as gearboxes and bearings, detecting faults months before failure. On
the other hand, analysis of electrical/electromagnetic quantities suggested for a more cost-
effective CM tend to fail detecting faults reliably and early enough, thus have received little
acceptance by the industry. Accordingly, some generator fault types can remain undetected
till catastrophic failure, meaning that unscheduled stops and downtime are unavoidable.
Ultimately, availability and O&M costs of DD wind turbines can be compromised by
immature CM methods for PMSGs that either leave faults undetected or generate false
alarms.
The analysis of PMSG fault types (stator winding insulation and connection faults,
airgap eccentricity, and demagnetization) has showed that various features can be extracted
from electromagnetic measurements—current, voltage, power, and ﬂux.
Online FD and CM methods measure these signals continuously during normal
operation of a generator. Ofﬂine methods are often more accurate but require turbine
outage. Therefore, ofﬂine tests are better suited for factory tests, onsite fault troubleshooting,
and converter self-commissioning procedures at standstill.
Winding insulation failures force immediate stop and unplanned corrective mainte-
nance. Despite the criticality of winding insulation, technologies for its online condition
monitoring are found at low readiness levels, thus they have not been deployed ﬂeet wide.
In general, online FD methods are unsuitable for providing health status information,
instead they aid minimizing damages and triggering fault-tolerant operation.
Experience from other industries has proved periodic ofﬂine testing advantageous and
mature for groundwall insulation monitoring only, whereas interturn faults tend to remain
undetected. The online methods required by the offshore wind industry are generally less
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 21 of 26
advantageous due to their shortfalls, namely robustness, sensitivity to low severity faults,
and ability to discriminate fault types.
In the past, many publications in the ﬁeld of rotating machines addressed fault
detection and condition monitoring together, erroneously overstating the capabilities of
new proposals. The more recent literature has exposed the limitations of the state-of-the-art
in CM of generators to justify the lack of adoption by the industry and motivate new
developments.
Trends identiﬁed in recently published work are: (1) ﬂux monitoring for fault de-
tection; (2) online capacitance measurement for condition monitoring and estimation of
RUL; (3) bulk temperature measurements close to stator windings; (4) development of
innovative sensors; and (5) deployment of machine learning and model-based diagnostics.
Opportunities for progress may be offered also by incremental improvements in existing
technologies. Integration of CM systems with turbine and power converter controllers may
improve capabilities at low cost, enabling multi-parameter monitoring and sensor fusion
(e.g., vibration and electrical signals). Online PD detection is an old candidate, whose
feasibility needs to be demonstrated in wind turbine applications.
To fulﬁl industry’s demand for CM of PMSGs winding insulation, foreseen research
challenges are the development of new sensors and methods tailored to large size PMSGs
in wind turbines, and the validation of techniques under laboratory accelerated life tests
and in the ﬁeld.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Taherian-Fard, E.; Sahebi, R.; Niknam, T.; Izadian, A.; Shasadeghi, M. Wind Turbine Drivetrain Technologies. IEEE Trans. Ind.
Appl. 2020 ,56, 1729–1741. [CrossRef]
2. Shourangiz-Haghighi, A.; Diazd, M.; Zhang, Y.; Li, J.; Yuan, Y.; Faraji, R.; Ding, L.; Guerrero, J.M. Developing More Efﬁcient Wind
Turbines: A Survey of Control Challenges and Opportunities. IEEE Ind. Electron. Mag. 2020 ,14, 53–64. [CrossRef]
3. Esch, J. High-power wind energy conversion systems: State-of-the-art and emerging technologies. Proc. IEEE 2015 ,103, 736–739.
[CrossRef]
4. Blaabjerg, F.; Ma, K. Future on Power Electronics for Wind Turbine Systems. IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron. 2013 ,1,
139–152. [CrossRef]
5. Polinder, H.; Ferreira, J.A.; Jensen, B.B.; Abrahamsen, A.B.; Atallah, K.; McMahon, R.A. Trends in Wind Turbine Generator
Systems. IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron. 2013 ,1, 174–185. [CrossRef]
6. Costa, Á.M.; Orosa, J.A.; Vergara, D.; Fern ández-Arias, P . New Tendencies in Wind Energy Operation and Maintenance. Appl. Sci.
2021 ,11, 1386. [CrossRef]
7. Tavner, P .; Ran, L.; Penman, J.; Sedding, H. Condition Monitoring of Rotating Electrical Machines ; IET, Energy Engineering: London,
UK, 2008.
8. Cardoso, A.J.M. Diagnosis and Fault Tolerance of Electrical Machines, Power Electronics and Drives ; IET, Energy Engineering: London,
UK, 2018.
9. Horenbeek, A.V .; Ostaeyen, J.V .; Duﬂou, J.R.; Pintelon, L. Quantifying the added value of an imperfectly performing condition
monitoring system—Application to a wind turbine gearbox. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2013 ,111, 45–57. [CrossRef]
10. Tchakoua, P .; Wamkeue, R.; Ouhrouche, M.; Slaoui-Hasnaoui, F.; Tameghe, T.; Ekemb, G. Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring:
State-of-the-Art Review, New Trends, and Future Challenges. Energies 2014 ,7, 2595–2630. [CrossRef]
11. Maldonado-Correa, J.; Mart ín-Mart ínez, S.; Artigao, E.; G ómez-L ázaro, E. Using SCADA Data for Wind Turbine Condition
Monitoring: A Systematic Literature Review. Energies 2020 ,13, 3132. [CrossRef]
12. Tautz-Weinert, J.; Watson, S.J. Using SCADA data for wind turbine condition monitoring—A review. IET Renew. Power Gener.
2017 ,11, 382–394. [CrossRef]
13. Castellani, F.; Astolﬁ, D.; Natili, F. SCADA Data Analysis Methods for Diagnosis of Electrical Faults to Wind Turbine Generators.
Appl. Sci. 2021 ,11, 3307. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 22 of 26
14. Zhao, Y.; Li, D.; Dong, A.; Kang, D.; Lv, Q.; Shang, L. Fault Prediction and Diagnosis of Wind Turbine Generators Using SCADA
Data. Energies 2017 ,10, 1210. [CrossRef]
15. Márquez, F.P .G.; Tobias, A.M.; Pinar P érez, J.M.; Papaelias, M. Condition monitoring of wind turbines: Techniques and methods.
Renew. Energy 2012 ,46, 169–178. [CrossRef]
16. Chen, B.; Zappal á, D.; Crabtree, C.J.; Tavner, P .J. Survey of Commercially Available SCADA Data Analysis Tools for Wind Turbine
Health Monitoring. Available online: http://dro.dur.ac.uk/12563/ (accessed on 29 September 2021).
17. Predict the Future with Vibration Diagnostics—Siemens Gamesa. Available online: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/-/media/
siemensgamesa/downloads/en/products-and-services/services/diagnostics/siemens-gamesa-service-diagnostic-services-
vibration-diagnostics-brochure.pdf (accessed on 29 September 2021).
18. Liu, Y.; Wu, Z.; Wang, X. Research on Fault Diagnosis of Wind Turbine Based on SCADA Data. IEEE Access 2020 ,8, 185557–185569.
[CrossRef]
19. C006432_004—Siemens SWT3.6. Available online: https://30npnb10r4n0173ti73ov30l-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/
uploads/2016/05/Siemens-SWT3_6-Application-Guide.pdf (accessed on 29 September 2021).
20. Soua, S.; Van Lieshout, P .; Perera, A.; Gan, T.-H.; Bridge, B. Determination of the combined vibrational and acoustic emission
signature of a wind turbine gearbox and generator shaft in service as a pre-requisite for effective condition monitoring. Renew.
Energy 2013 ,51, 175–181. [CrossRef]
21. Yang, W.; Tavner, P .J.; Crabtree, C.J.; Wilkinson, M. Cost-Effective Condition Monitoring for Wind Turbines. IEEE Trans. Ind.
Electron. 2010 ,57, 263–271. [CrossRef]
22. Immovilli, F.; Bellini, A.; Rubini, R.; Tassoni, C. Diagnosis of Bearing Faults in Induction Machines by Vibration or Current Signals:
A Critical Comparison. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2010 ,46, 1350–1359. [CrossRef]
23. Cheng, F.; Qu, L.; Qiao, W. Fault Prognosis and Remaining Useful Life Prediction of Wind Turbine Gearboxes Using Current
Signal Analysis. IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy 2018 ,9, 157–167. [CrossRef]
24. Jin, X.; Qiao, W.; Peng, Y.; Cheng, F.; Qu, L. Quantitative Evaluation of Wind Turbine Faults Under Variable Operational
Conditions. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2016 ,52, 2061–2069. [CrossRef]
25. Balakrishna, P .; Khan, U. An Autonomous Electrical Signature Analysis-Based Method for Faults Monitoring in Industrial Motors.
IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2021 ,70, 1–8. [CrossRef]
26. Stetco, A.; Dinmohammadi, F.; Zhao, X.; Robu, V .; Flynn, D.; Barnes, M.; Keane, J.; Nenadic, G. Machine learning methods for
wind turbine condition monitoring: A review. Renew. Energy 2019 ,133, 620–635. [CrossRef]
27. Nyanteh, Y.; Edrington, C.; Srivastava, S.; Cartes, D. Application of Artiﬁcial Intelligence to Real-Time Fault Detection in
Permanent-Magnet Synchronous Machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2013 ,49, 1205–1214. [CrossRef]
28. Lee, H.; Jeong, H.; Koo, G.; Ban, J.; Kim, S.W. Attention Recurrent Neural Network-Based Severity Estimation Method for
Interturn Short-Circuit Fault in Permanent Magnet Synchronous Machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2021 ,68, 3445–3453.
[CrossRef]
29. Haddad, R.Z.; Strangas, E.G. On the Accuracy of Fault Detection and Separation in Permanent Magnet Synchronous Machines
Using MCSA/MVSA and LDA. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2016 ,31, 924–934. [CrossRef]
30. Rezamand, M.; Kordestani, M.; Carriveau, R.; Ting, D.S.K.; Orchard, M.E.; Saif, M. Critical Wind Turbine Components Prognostics:
A Comprehensive Review. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2020 ,69, 9306–9328. [CrossRef]
31. Leite, G.N.P .; Ara újo, A.M.; Rosas, P .A.C. Prognostic techniques applied to maintenance of wind turbines: A concise and speciﬁc
review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2018 ,81, 1917–1925. [CrossRef]
32. Yaramasu, V .; Wu, B. Model Predictive Control of Wind Energy Conversion Systems ; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2017.
33. Jahns, T.M.; Soong, W.L. Pulsating torque minimization techniques for permanent magnet AC motor drives-a review. IEEE Trans.
Ind. Electron. 1996 ,43, 321–330. [CrossRef]
34. Leboeuf, N.; Guan, X.; Li, C.; Mou, Q. Effects of Imperfect Manufacturing Process on Electromagnetic Performance and Online
Interturn Fault Detection in PMSMs. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 3388–3398.
35. Wang, J.; Atallah, K.; Howe, D. Optimal torque control of fault-tolerant permanent magnet brushless machines. IEEE Trans. Magn.
2003 ,39, 2962–2964. [CrossRef]
36. Springob, L.; Holtz, J. High-bandwidth current control for torque-ripple compensation in PM synchronous machines. IEEE Trans.
Ind. Electron. 1998 ,45, 713–721. [CrossRef]
37. Mattavelli, P . Synchronous-frame harmonic control for high-performance AC power supplies. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2001 ,37,
864–872. [CrossRef]
38. Hu, Y.; Zhu, Z.; Liu, K. Current Control for Dual Three-Phase Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors Accounting for Current
Unbalance and Harmonics. IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron. 2014 ,2, 272–284.
39. Geyer, T. Model Predictive Control of High-Power Converters and Industrial Drives ; Wiley: Chichester, UK, 2017.
40. Muetze, A.; Strangas, E.G. The Useful Life of Inverter-Based Drive Bearings: Methods and Research Directions from Localized
Maintenace to Prognosis. IEEE Ind. Appl. Mag. 2016 ,22, 63–73. [CrossRef]
41. Spinato, F.; Tavner, P .J.; van Bussel, G.J.W.; Koutoulakos, E. Reliability of wind turbine subassemblies. IET Renew. Power Gener.
2009 ,3, 387–401. [CrossRef]
42. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; McMillan, D. Reliability Comparison of Wind Turbines with DFIG and PMG Drive Trains. IEEE Trans.
Energy Convers. 2015 ,30, 663–670. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 23 of 26
43. Qiao, W.; Lu, D. A Survey on Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis—Part I: Components and Subsystems.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 6536–6545. [CrossRef]
44. Alewine, K.; Chen, W. A review of electrical winding failures in wind turbine generators. IEEE Electr. Insul. Mag. 2012 ,28, 8–13.
[CrossRef]
45. Malliou, C.; Karlis, A.D.; Danikas, M.G.; Lloyd, B. A Short Review on the Offshore Wind Turbine Generator Windings’ Insulation
and the Effect of Water Droplets and Salinity. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2016 ,52, 4610–4618. [CrossRef]
46. Cintron-Rivera, J.G.; Foster, S.N.; Strangas, E.G. Mitigation of turn-to-turn faults in fault tolerant permanent magnet synchronous
motors. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2015 ,30, 465–475. [CrossRef]
47. Chen, L.; Wang, J.; Sun, Z. Electromagnetic-thermal coupled modelling and analysis of inter-turn short-circuit faults of a
permanent magnet alternator. J. Eng. 2019 ,2019 , 4426–4431. [CrossRef]
48. Zhao, J.; Guan, X.; Li, C.; Mou, Q.; Chen, Z. Comprehensive Evaluation of Inter-Turn Short Circuit Faults in PMSM Used for
Electric Vehicles. IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 2021 ,22, 611–621. [CrossRef]
49. Gandhi, A.; Corrigan, T.; Parsa, L. Recent Advances in Modeling and Online Detection of Stator Interturn Faults in Electrical
Motors. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2011 ,58, 1564–1575. [CrossRef]
50. Usman, A.; Joshi, B.M.; Rajpurohit, B.S. Review of fault modeling methods for permanent magnet synchronous motors and
their comparison. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE 11th International Symposium on Diagnostics for Electrical Machines, Power
Electronics and Drives (SDEMPED), Tinos, Greece„ 29 August–1 September 2017; pp. 141–146.
51. Kim, T.; Lee, H.; Kwak, S. The Internal Fault Analysis of Brushless DC Motors Based on the Winding Function Theory. IEEE Trans.
Magn. 2009 ,45, 2090–2096.
52. Dai, M.; Keyhani, A.; Sebastian, T. Fault analysis of a PM brushless DC Motor using ﬁnite element method. IEEE Trans. Energy
Convers. 2005 ,20, 1–6. [CrossRef]
53. Vaseghi, B.; Takorabet, N.; Meibody-Tabar, F. Fault Analysis and Parameter Identiﬁcation of Permanent-Magnet Motors by the
Finite-Element Method. IEEE Trans. Magn. 2009 ,45, 3290–3295. [CrossRef]
54. Sun, Z.; Wang, J.; Howe, D.; Jewell, G. Analytical Prediction of the Short-Circuit Current in Fault-Tolerant Permanent-Magnet
Machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2008 ,55, 4210–4217.
55. Arumugam, P .; Hamiti, T.; Gerada, C. Modeling of Different Winding Conﬁgurations for Fault-Tolerant Permanent Magnet
Machines to Restrain Interturn Short-Circuit Current. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2012 ,27, 351–361. [CrossRef]
56. Romeral, L.; Urresty, J.C.; Ruiz, J.R.; Espinosa, A.G. Modeling of Surface-Mounted Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors with
Stator Winding Interturn Faults. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2011 ,58, 1576–1585. [CrossRef]
57. Jeong, I.; Hyon, B.J.; Nam, K. Dynamic Modeling and Control for SPMSMs With Internal Turn Short Fault. IEEE Trans. Power
Electron. 2013 ,28, 3495–3508. [CrossRef]
58. Forstner, G.; Kugi, A.; Kemmetmüller, W. A Magnetic Equivalent Circuit Based Modeling Framework for Electric Motors Applied
to a PMSM with Winding Short Circuit. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2020 ,35, 12285–12295. [CrossRef]
59. Qi, Y.; Bostanci, E.; Gurusamy, V .; Akin, B. A Comprehensive Analysis of Short-Circuit Current Behavior in PMSM Interturn
Short-Circuit Faults. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2018 ,33, 10784–10793. [CrossRef]
60. Hong, J.; Hyun, D.; Lee, S.B.; Yoo, J.; Lee, K. Automated Monitoring of Magnet Quality for Permanent-Magnet Synchronous
Motors at Standstill. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2010 ,46, 1397–1405. [CrossRef]
61. Hong, J.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Detection and Classiﬁcation of Rotor Demagnetization and Eccentricity Faults for PM
Synchronous Motors. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2012 ,48, 923–932. [CrossRef]
62. Stone, G.; Boulter, E.; Culbert, I.; Dhirani, H. Electrical Insulation for Rotating Machines—Design, Evaluation, Aging, Testing, and
Repair ; Wiley-IEEE Press: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2014.
63. IEEE Recommended Practice for Testing Insulation Resistance of Electric Machinery. IEEE Std 43–2013; Revision of IEEE Std
43–2000. 2012, Volume 6, pp. 1–37. Available online: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6754111 (accessed on 29 September
2021).
64. IEEE Guide for the Measurement of Partial Discharges in AC Electric Machinery . IEEE Std 1434–2014; Revision of IEEE Std 1434–2000.
2014, Volume 4, pp. 1–89. Available online: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6973042 (accessed on 29 September 2021).
65. IEEE Guide for Testing Turn Insulation of Form-Wound Stator Coils for Alternating-Current Electric Machines . IEEE Std 522–2004;
Revision of IEEE Std 522–1992. 2004, pp. 1–28. Available online: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1322822 (accessed on 29
September 2021).
66. Stone, G.C. Recent important changes in IEEE motor and generator winding insulation diagnostic testing standards. IEEE Trans.
Ind. Appl. 2005 ,41, 91–100. [CrossRef]
67. Stranges, M.K.W.; Haq, S.U.; Vouk, A.O. Monitoring Stator Insulation in Critical Motors: Choosing Diagnostic Tests. IEEE Ind.
Appl. Mag. 2014 ,20, 50–55. [CrossRef]
68. Kim, H.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Experience with Stator Insulation Testing and Turn/Phase Insulation Failures in the
Power Generation Industry. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2018 ,54, 2225–2236. [CrossRef]
69. Yang, J.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Experimental evaluation of using the surge PD test as a predictive maintenance tool for
monitoring turn insulation quality in random wound AC motor stator windings. IEEE Trans. Dielectr. Electr. Insul. 2012 ,19, 53–60.
[CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 24 of 26
70. Qi, Y.; Zafarani, M.; Akin, B.; Fedigan, S.E. Analysis and Detection of Inter-Turn Short-Circuit Fault Through Extended Self-
Commissioning. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2017 ,53, 2730–2739. [CrossRef]
71. Hong, J.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Detection of Airgap Eccentricity for Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors Based on
the d-Axis Inductance. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2012 ,27, 2605–2612. [CrossRef]
72. Aggarwal, A.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Off-Line Detection of Static Eccentricity of PMSM Robust to Machine Operating Temperature
and Rotor Position Misalignment Using Incremental Inductance Approach. IEEE Trans. Transp. Electrif. 2021 ,7, 161–168.
[CrossRef]
73. Deng, H. Method to Detect or Monitor the Demagnetization of a. Magnet. Patent U.S. 2017/0030984 A1, 2 February 2017.
74. Nandi, S.; Toliyat, H.A.; Li, X. Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis of Electrical Motors—A Review. IEEE Trans. Energy
Convers. 2005 ,20, 719–729. [CrossRef]
75. Grubic, S.; Aller, J.M.; Lu, B.; Habetler, T.G. A Survey on Testing and Monitoring Methods for Stator Insulation Systems of
Low-Voltage Induction Machines Focusing on Turn Insulation Problems. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2008 ,55, 4127–4136. [CrossRef]
76. Henao, H.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Trends in Fault Diagnosis for Electrical Machines: A Review of Diagnostic Techniques.
IEEE Ind. Electron. Mag. 2014 ,8, 31–42. [CrossRef]
77. Riera-Guasp, M.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Advances in Electrical Machine, Power Electronic, and Drive Condition
Monitoring and Fault Detection: State of the Art. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 1746–1759. [CrossRef]
78. Zafarani, M.; Bostanci, E.; Qi, Y.; Goktas, T.; Akin, B. Interturn Short-Circuit Faults in Permanent Magnet Synchronous Machines:
An Extended Review and Comprehensive Analysis. IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron. 2018 ,6. [CrossRef]
79. Ullah, Z.; Hur, J. A Comprehensive Review of Winding Short Circuit Fault and Irreversible Demagnetization Fault Detection in
PM Type Machines. Energies 2018 ,11, 3309. [CrossRef]
80. Lee, S.B.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Condition Monitoring of Industrial Electric Machines: State of the Art and Future
Challenges. IEEE Ind. Electron. Mag. 2020 ,14, 158–167. [CrossRef]
81. Wu, Q.; Nandi, S. Fast Single-Turn Sensitive Stator Interturn Fault Detection of Induction Machines Based on Positive- and
Negative-Sequence Third Harmonic Components of Line Currents. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2010 ,46. [CrossRef]
82. Ebrahimi, B.M.; Faiz, J. Conﬁguration Impacts on Eccentricity Fault Detection in Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors. IEEE
Trans. Magn. 2012 ,48, 903–906. [CrossRef]
83. Ebrahimi, B.M.; Faiz, J.; Roshtkhari, M.J. Static-, Dynamic-, and Mixed-Eccentricity Fault Diagnoses in Permanent-Magnet
Synchronous Motors. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2009 ,56, 4727–4739. [CrossRef]
84. Wang, C.; Prieto, M.D.; Romeral, L.; Chen, Z.; Blaabjerg, F.; Liu, X. Detection of Partial Demagnetization Fault in PMSMs
Operating Under Nonstationary Conditions. IEEE Trans. Magn. 2016 ,52, 1–4. [CrossRef]
85. Cardoso, A.J.M.; Cruz, S.M.A.; Fonseca, D.S.B. Inter-turn stator winding fault diagnosis in three-phase induction motors, by
Park’s vector approach. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 1999 ,14, 595–598. [CrossRef]
86. Cruz, S.M.A.; Cardoso, A.J.M. Stator winding fault diagnosis in three-phase synchronous and asynchronous motors, by the
extended Park’s vector approach. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2001 ,37, 1227–1233. [CrossRef]
87. Cruz, S.M.A.; Cardoso, A.J.M. Multiple reference frames theory: A new method for the diagnosis of stator faults in three-phase
induction motors. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2005 ,20, 611–619. [CrossRef]
88. Kim, K. Simple Online Fault Detecting Scheme for Short-Circuited Turn in a PMSM Through Current Harmonic Monitoring.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2011 ,58, 2565–2568. [CrossRef]
89. Hang, J.; Ding, S.; Zhang, J.; Cheng, M.; Chen, W.; Wang, Q. Detection of Interturn Short-Circuit Fault for PMSM with Simple
Fault Indicator. IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2016 ,31, 1697–1699. [CrossRef]
90. Boileau, T.; Leboeuf, N.; Nahid-Mobarakeh, B.; Meibody-Tabar, F. Synchronous Demodulation of Control Voltages for Stator
Interturn Fault Detection in PMSM. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2013 ,28, 5647–5654. [CrossRef]
91. Meinguet, F.; Semail, E.; Kestelyn, X.; Mollet, Y.; Gyselinck, J. ’Change-detection algorithm for short-circuit fault detection in
closed-loop AC drives. IET Electr. Power Appl. 2014 ,8, 165–177. [CrossRef]
92. Immovilli, F.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Evaluation of Combined Reference Frame Transformation for Interturn Fault
Detection in Permanent-Magnet Multiphase Machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 1912–1920. [CrossRef]
93. Haddad, R.Z.; Lopez, C.A.; Foster, S.N.; Strangas, E.G. A Voltage-Based Approach for Fault Detection and Separation in
Permanent Magnet Synchronous Machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2011 ,53, 5305–5314. [CrossRef]
94. Hang, J.; Zhang, J.; Cheng, M.; Huang, J. Online Interturn Fault Diagnosis of Permanent Magnet Synchronous Machine Using
Zero-Sequence Components. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2015 ,30, 6731–6741. [CrossRef]
95. Urresty, J.; Riba, J.; Romeral, L. Diagnosis of Interturn Faults in PMSMs Operating Under Nonstationary Conditions by Applying
Order Tracking Filtering. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2013 ,28, 507–515. [CrossRef]
96. Zhang, Y.; Liu, G.; Zhao, W.; Zhou, H.; Chen, Q.; Wei, M. Online Diagnosis of Slight Interturn Short-Circuit Fault for a Low-Speed
Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor. IEEE Trans. Transp. Electrif. 2021 ,7, 104–113. [CrossRef]
97. Drif, M.; Cardoso, A.J.M. Stator Fault Diagnostics in Squirrel Cage Three-Phase Induction Motor Drives Using the Instantaneous
Active and Reactive Power Signature Analyses. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2014 ,10, 1348–1360. [CrossRef]
98. Gritli, Y.; Tani, A.; Rossi, C.; Casadei, D. Cosed-loop control impact on condition monitoring of high-resistance connections in
PMSM based on power signature analysis. In Proceedings of the IECON 2016 42nd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial
Electronics Society, Florence, Italy, 23–26 October 2016.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 25 of 26
99. Wang, B.; Wang, J.; Griffo, A.; Sen, B. Stator Turn Fault Detection by Second Harmonic in Instantaneous Power for a Triple-
Redundant Fault-Tolerant PM Drive. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2018 ,65, 7279–7289. [CrossRef]
100. Bellini, A.; Filippetti, F.; Franceschini, G.; Tassoni, C. Closed-loop control impact on the diagnosis of induction motors faults.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2000 ,36, 1318–1329. [CrossRef]
101. Cruz, S.M.A.; Cardoso, A.J.M. Diagnosis of stator inter-turn short circuits in DTC induction motor drives. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl.
2004 ,40, 1349–1360. [CrossRef]
102. Hang, J.; Zhang, J.; Xia, M.; Ding, S.; Hua, W. Interturn Fault Diagnosis for Model-Predictive-Controlled-PMSM Based on Cost
Function and Wavelet Transform. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2020 ,35, 6405–6418. [CrossRef]
103. Huang, S.; Aggarwal, A.; Strangas, E.G.; Li, K.; Niu, F.; Huang, X. Robust Stator Winding Fault Detection in PMSMs With Respect
to Current Controller Bandwidth. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2021 ,36, 5032–5042. [CrossRef]
104. Zafarani, M.; Goktas, T.; Akin, B.; Fedigan, S.E. Modeling and Dynamic Behavior Analysis of Magnet Defect Signatures in
Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2016 ,52, 3753–3762. [CrossRef]
105. Yun, J.; Cho, J.; Lee, S.B.; Yoo, J. Online Detection of High-Resistance Connections in the Incoming Electrical Circuit for Induction
Motors. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2009 ,45, 694–702. [CrossRef]
106. Yun, J.; Lee, K.; Lee, K.; Lee, S.B.; Yoo, J. Detection and Classiﬁcation of Stator Turn Faults and High-Resistance Electrical
Connections for Induction Machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2009 ,45, 666–675. [CrossRef]
107. Zarri, L.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Detection and Localization of Stator Resistance Dissymmetry Based on Multiple Reference
Frame Controllers in Multiphase Induction Motor Drives. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2013 ,60, 3506–3518. [CrossRef]
108. Mengoni, M.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Online Detection of High-Resistance Connections in Multiphase Induction Machines.
IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2015 ,30, 4505–4513. [CrossRef]
109. Mengoni, M.; Zarri, L.; Gritli, Y.; Tani, A.; Filippetti, F.; Lee, S.B. Online Detection of High-Resistance Connections with
Negative-Sequence Regulators in Three-Phase Induction Motor Drives. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2015 ,51, 1579–1586. [CrossRef]
110. Sarikhani, A.; Mohammed, O.A. Inter-Turn Fault Detection in PM Synchronous Machines by Physics-Based Back Electromotive
Force Estimation. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2013 ,60, 3472–3484. [CrossRef]
111. Mazzoletti, M.A.; Bossio, G.R.; de Angelo, C.H.; Espinoza-Trejo, D.R. A Model-Based Strategy for Interturn Short-Circuit Fault
Diagnosis in PMSM. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2017 ,64, 7218–7228. [CrossRef]
112. Jeong, H.; Moon, S.; Kim, S.W. An Early Stage Interturn Fault Diagnosis of PMSMs by Using Negative-Sequence Components.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2017 ,64, 5701–5708. [CrossRef]
113. Hu, R.; Wang, J.; Mills, A.R.; Chong, E.; Sun, Z. Current-Residual-Based Stator Interturn Fault Detection in Permanent Magnet
Machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2021 ,68, 59–69. [CrossRef]
114. Milanfar, P .; Lang, J.H. Monitoring the thermal condition of permanent-magnet synchronous motors. IEEE Trans. Aerosp. Electron.
Syst. 1996 ,32, 1421–1429. [CrossRef]
115. Xiao, S.; Griffo, A. PWM-Based Flux Linkage and Rotor Temperature Estimations for Permanent Magnet Synchronous Machines.
IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2020 ,35, 6061–6069. [CrossRef]
116. de la Barrera, P .M.; Bossio, G.R.; Leidhold, R. Online Voltage Sensorless High-Resistance Connection Diagnosis in Induction
Motor Drives. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 4374–4384. [CrossRef]
117. Sun, J.; Li, C.; Zheng, Z.; Wang, K.; Li, Y. Online Estimation of Per-phase Stator Resistance Based on DC-Signal Injection for
Condition Monitoring in Multiphase Drives. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electronics 2021 . [CrossRef]
118. Briz, F.; Degner, M.W.; Zamarron, A.; Guerrero, J.M. Online stator winding fault diagnosis in inverter-fed AC machines using
high-frequency signal injection. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2003 ,39, 1109–1117. [CrossRef]
119. Wang, B.; Luo, L.; Fu, W.; Hua, W.; Wang, G.; Wang, Z. Study on the PWM Ripple Current Based Turn Fault Detection for Interior
PM Machine. IEEE Trans. Transp. Electrif. 2021 ,7, 1537–1547. [CrossRef]
120. Zhang, J.; Xu, Z.; Wang, J.; Zhao, J.; Din, Z.; Cheng, M. Detection and Discrimination of Incipient Stator Faults for Inverter-Fed
Permanent Magnet Synchronous Machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2021 ,68, 7505–7515. [CrossRef]
121. Hu, R.; Wang, J.; Mills, A.R.; Chong, E.; Sun, Z. High-Frequency Voltage Injection Based Stator Interturn Fault Detection in
Permanent Magnet Machines. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2021 ,36, 785–794. [CrossRef]
122. Sasic, M.; Campbell, S.R.; Lloyd, B. Flux Monitoring Improvement. IEEE Ind. Appl. Mag. 2011 ,17, 66–69. [CrossRef]
123. Da, Y.; Shi, X.; Krishnamurthy, M. A New Approach to Fault Diagnostics for Permanent Magnet Synchronous Machines Using
Electromagnetic Signature Analysis. IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 2013 ,28, 4104–4112. [CrossRef]
124. Mohammed, A.; Melecio, J.I.; Djurovi´ c, S. Electrical Machine Permanent Magnets Health Monitoring and Diagnosis Using an
Air-Gap Magnetic Sensor. IEEE Sens. J. 2020 ,20, 5251–5259. [CrossRef]
125. Irhoumah, M.; Pusca, R.; Lefevre, E.; Mercier, D.; Romary, R.; Demian, C. Information Fusion with Belief Functions for Detection
of Interturn Short-Circuit Faults in Electrical Machines Using External Flux Sensors. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2018 ,65, 2642–2652.
[CrossRef]
126. Irhoumah, M.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. Detection of the Stator Winding Inter-Turn Faults in Asynchronous and Synchronous
Machines Through the Correlation Between Harmonics of the Voltage of Two Magnetic Flux Sensors. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2019 ,
55, 2682–2689. [CrossRef]
127. Gurusamy, V .; Bostanci, E.; Li, C.; Qi, Y.; Akin, B. A Stray Magnetic Flux-Based Robust Diagnosis Method for Detection and
Location of Interturn Short Circuit Fault in PMSM. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2021 ,70, 1–11. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2021 ,9, 260 26 of 26
128. Gyftakis, K.N.; Cardoso, A.J.M. Reliable Detection of Stator Interturn Faults of Very Low Severity Level in Induction Motors.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2021 ,68, 3475–3484. [CrossRef]
129. Grassetti, R.; Ottoboni, R.; Rossi, M.; Toscani, S. Low cost arc fault detection in aerospace applications. IEEE Instrum. Meas. Mag.
2013 ,16, 37–42. [CrossRef]
130. de Pelegrin, J.; Dreyer, U.J.; Martelli, C.; da Silva, J.C.C. Optical Fiber Sensor Encapsulated in Carbon Fiber Reinforced Polymer
for Fault Detection in Rotating Electrical Machines. IEEE Sens. J. 2020 ,20, 11364–11371. [CrossRef]
131. Mohammed, A.; Melecio, J.I.; Djurovi´ c, S. Stator Winding Fault Thermal Signature Monitoring and Analysis by In Situ FBG
Sensors. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2019 ,66, 8082–8092. [CrossRef]
132. Kumar, P .S.; Xie, L.; Halick, M.S.M.; Vaiyapuri, V . Online stator end winding thermography using infrared sensor array. In
Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), San Antonio, TX, USA, 4–8 March
2018; pp. 2454–2459.
133. Kumar, P .S.; Xie, L.; Halick, M.S.M.; Vaiyapuri, V . Stator End-Winding Thermal and Magnetic Sensor Arrays for Online Stator
Inter-Turn Fault Detection. IEEE Sens. J. 2021 ,21, 5312–5321. [CrossRef]
134. Stone, G.C.; Warren, V . Effect of manufacturer, winding age and insulation type on stator winding partial discharge levels. IEEE
Electr. Insul. Mag. 2004 ,20, 13–17. [CrossRef]
135. Stone, G.C. A perspective on online partial discharge monitoring for assessment of the condition of rotating machine stator
winding insulation. IEEE Electr. Insul. Mag. 2012 ,28, 8–13. [CrossRef]
136. Lu, S.; Chai, H.; Sahoo, A.; Phung, B.T. Condition Monitoring Based on Partial Discharge Diagnostics Using Machine Learning
Methods: A Comprehensive State-of-the-Art Review. IEEE Trans. Dielectr. Electr. Insul. 2020 ,27, 1861–1888. [CrossRef]
137. Lee, S.B.; Yang, J.; Younsi, K.; Bharadwaj, R.M. An online groundwall and phase-to-phase insulation quality assessment technique
for AC-machine stator windings. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2006 ,42, 946–957.
138. Lee, S.B.; Younsi, K.; Kliman, G.B. An online technique for monitoring the insulation condition of AC machine stator windings.
IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2005 ,20, 737–745. [CrossRef]
139. Younsi, K.; Lee, S.B.; Kral, C.; Haumer, A. On-line capacitance and dissipation factor monitoring of AC stator insulation. IEEE
Trans. Dielectr. Electr. Insul. 2010 ,17, 1441–1452. [CrossRef]
140. Zhang, P .; Younsi, K.; Neti, P . A Novel Online Stator Ground-Wall Insulation Monitoring Scheme for Inverter-Fed AC Motors.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2015 ,51, 2201–2207. [CrossRef]
141. Tsyokhla, I.; Griffo, A.; Wang, J. Online Condition Monitoring for Diagnosis and Prognosis of Insulation Degradation of
Inverter-Fed Machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2019 ,66, 8126–8135. [CrossRef]
142. Tsyokhla, I.; Griffo, A.; Wang, J. Detection of humidity ingress using online common-mode insulation impedance-monitoring
system. J. Eng. 2019 ,2019 , 4411–4414. [CrossRef]
143. Tsyokhla, I.; Griffo, A.; Wang, J. On-Line Motor Insulation Capacitance Monitoring Using Low-Cost Sensors. In Proceedings of
the 2019 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Baltimore, MD, USA, 29 September–3 October 2019; pp.
6996–7003.
144. Alvarez-Gonzalez, F.; Hewitt, D.; Griffo, A.; Wang, J. Challenges of Common Mode Current and Voltage Acquisition for Stator
Winding Insulation Health Monitoring. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE),
Detroit, MI, USA, 11–15 October 2020; pp. 4452–4459.
145. Zheng, D.; Zhang, P . An Online Groundwall and Phase-to-Phase Stator Insulation Monitoring Method for Inverter-Fed Machine.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2021 ,68, 5303–5313. [CrossRef]
146. El-Refaie, A.M. Fault-tolerant permanent magnet machines: A review. IET Electr. Power Appl. 2011 ,5, 59–74. [CrossRef]
147. Arumugam, P .; Hamiti, T.; Gerada, C. Turn–turn short circuit fault management in permanent magnet machines. IET Electr. Power
Appl. 2015 ,9, 634–641. [CrossRef]
148. Dusek, J.; Arumugam, P .; Brunson, C.; Amankwah, E.K.; Hamiti, T.; Gerada, C. Impact of Slot/Pole Combination on Inter-Turn
Short-Circuit Current in Fault-Tolerant Permanent Magnet Machines. IEEE Trans. Magn. 2016 ,52, 1–9. [CrossRef]
149. Merkhouf, A.; Bernier, S.; Cave, J.; Kokoko, O.; Pedneault-Desroches, J.; Millet, C. Operational Limits of a Large Hydro Generator
with Bypassed Coils and Circuits. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE Workshop on Electrical Machines Design, Control and
Diagnosis (WEMDCD), Athens, Greece, 22–23 April 2019.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
