EAI Endorsed Transactions  
on Energy Web  Research Article  
Analysis and Design of Wind Turbine Monitoring System 
Based on Edge Computing  
Xiaoju Yin1,a, Yuhan Mu1,b, Bo Li2,c*, Yuxin Wang3,d* 
1*School of Renewable Energy, Shenyang Institute of Engineering, Shenyang 110136, China  
2College of Information , Shenyang Institute of Engineering, Shenyang 110136, China  
3College of Computer and Information Engineering, Tianjin Agricultural University, Tianjin 300380, China 
Abstract  
INTRODUCTION: A wind turbine data analysis method based on the combination of Hadoop and edge computing is 
proposed. 
OBJECTIVES: Solve the wind turbine health status monitoring system large data, time extension, energy consumption and 
other problems.  
METHODS: By analysing the technical requirements and business processes of the system, the overall framework of the 
system was designed and a deep reinforcement learning algorithm based on big data was proposed.  
RESULTS: It solves the problem of insufficient computing resources as well as energy consumption and latency problems 
occurring in the data analysis layer, solves the problems in WTG task offloading, and improves the computational offloading 
efficiency of the edge nodes to complete the collection, storage, and analysis of WTG data.  
CONCLUSION: The data analysis and experimental simulation platform is built through Python, and the results show that 
the application of Hadoop and the edge computing offloading strategy based on the DDPG algorithm to the system improves 
the system's quality of service and computational performance, and the method is applicable to the distributed storage and 
analysis of the device in the massive monitoring data.  
Keywords: monitoring system, Hadoop, edge computing, big data.  
Received on 1 7 November 2023, accepted on 06 April  2024, published on 11 April  2024  
C
opyright © 2024  X. Yin  et al. , licensed to EAI. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the CC BY -NC-SA 4.0 , 
which permits copying, redistributing, remixing, transformation, and building upon the material in any medium so long as the original 
work is properly cited.  
doi
: 10.4108/ ew.5742 
1. Introduction
1.1. Progress of related research at home 
and abroad  
With the proposal of carbon peak and carbon neutrality, China's 
wind power industry is growing rapidly, and the vigorous development of wind power is in line with the country's future energy strategic planning. As an important wind power equipment that converts wind energy into electricity [1], the 
operation safety of wind turbines has attracted much attention. 
In order to get more stable wind speed and efficient power generation efficiency, WTGs are developing in the direction of large -scale, and their bla des are becoming more and more large -
scale, from gear box type to direct -drive type, fixed speed to 
variable speed, fixed pitch to variable pitch, land -based to 
a lnsolyxj@163.com, b2275936994@qq.com , c*Corresponding author: 498806972@qq.com, d*261235654@qq.com  ocean -based, and the power is also raised to as high as MW 
level, and the structure of WTGs is also developing in the direction of towering, and the cost of wind turbines, technical difficulties, and safety risks increase with the increase in their 
height.  The cost, technical difficulties and safety risks of wind 
turbines increase with their height. With the increase in height 
of WTGs, the ratio of horizontal and vertical dimensions is becoming more and more obvious, and WTGs are subject to strong external load forces when encountering natural disasters such as earthquakes, typhoons, etc., which are prone to large 
vibration changes, and wind turbine breakage or even collapse 
accidents. In order to guarantee the safe, efficient and reliable operation of wind turbines, wind farms are constantly developing towards digitalization, and the number of various wind turbine intelligent terminal devices installed has increased 
significantly, and their internal structure often fails, leading to 
frequent accidents in win d farms, so real -time monitoring of 
EAI Endorsed Transactions on 
Energy Web 
| Volume 11 | 2024 |
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
X.
Yin et al.
data on the status of wind turbines, timely discovery of 
abnormal status of wind turbines, and the realization of 
predictive maintenance of wind turbines have become new 
problems to be solved at present problem [2]. Therefore, the development of WTG monitoring system has important engineering application value.   
Efficient calculation, analysis and storage of large amounts 
of data from wind turbines is a major challenge. Cheng 
Jiangzhou et al  [3] established a wind turbine fault diagnosis and 
risk prediction model by using improved Bayesian network for 
the problem of frequent failures of wind turbines caused by severe weather; Zhang Jinhua et al  [4] established an optimal 
dispatch model of wind farms, which effectively reduces the loss of wind farms;  Song Wei et al  [5] designed a wind turbine 
bearing fault diagnosis method based on improved noise reduction self -encoder for the problem of weak bearing 
vibration signal characteristics and difficult diagnosis; Han Pingping et al  [6] used the characteristics of Hadoop for the 
problem that the current massive data of wind turbines cannot be analyzed and stored efficiently, and applied it to the storage 
and analysis of wind power data. As numerical simulation 
requires high computatio nal power and is time and resource 
consuming , learning from past experiences and lessons learnt, 
this paper utilizes the edge network environment in conjunction with a distributed system infrastructure (Hadoop) [7] -[8] to 
provide a reliable and effective solution for multi -source data in 
monitoring systems.  
1.2. The main research ideas and content of 
this paper  
In this paper, a WTG monitoring system based on edge 
computing and Hadoop is proposed, and the overall framework and content of the system are designed according to the requirements of the system. With multiple WTG targets, the WTG intelligent terminal equ ipment has limited computational 
resources, and certain WTG terminal equipment executes the modelling tasks with frequent task congestion, lagging, and other abnormal operating conditions, which leads to its execution delay and energy consumption being par ticularly 
large. The delay and energy consumption are particularly large. Therefore, servers with computing power are introduced into 
the data analysis layer of the system as edge nodes to share the 
computational pressure of terminal devices to improve the  task 
processing rate and reduce energy consumption.  
In order to solve the computational offloading decision 
problem in the process of wind turbine data modelling, a task offloading algorithm for wind turbine vibration modelling 
based on deep reinforcement learning to achieve multi -data 
optimization is proposed [9].
 Edge computing mainly uses the 
calculation unloading strategy to process and analyze various 
collected data. The tasks in edge computing are often highly dynamic [10] -[11]. In the edge computing environment, the 
energy cost cost of computation off loading becomes smaller at 
the edge server [12] -[14]. 
Finally, we analyz e and compare the task execution time and 
task processing efficiency of the system under various computational offloading strategies, obtain the optimal computational offloading scheme, and improve the wind turbine health status monitoring system. In summary, this paper 
studies the wind turbine status monitoring system based on the 
combination of Hadoop and edge computing.  
2. System requirements analysis
Currently, different types of sensors are installed on wind turbines to collect real- time data such as wind direction, wind 
speed, nacelle vibration, and temperature and humidity to achieve the monitoring of wind turbine operating conditions. As 
the operating time of wind turbines advances, the data generated 
by wind farms is getting bigger and bigger, which is beyond the capacity of data processing and sto rage of the current 
monitoring system. In the face of massive wind turbine data, the traditional relational database is difficult to adapt to the development of WTG monitoring data will be biased.  
In order to improve the accuracy of the fault diagnosis of the 
WTG condition monitoring system and reduce the energy loss of the system, the system requirements are analyzed to achieve the following functions:  
(a)
R
educe the total delay and total energy consumption of
the WTG monitoring system when performing tasks.  
(b)R
eal-time monitoring of WTG data.
(c) Capable of realising the function of storing and managing 
a large amount of raw data from intelligent sensors.  
(d)D
ata analysis of WTGs to determine equipment health
and remaining life.  
3. Framework design of WTMS
3.1. System framework design  
Using the system architecture of "layered design", the statistics 
and analysis of wind turbine data are processed, and the big data analysis structure is combined with edge computing to achieve the batch collection, analysis and application of wind turbine  
multi -source data, and the overall framework of the system is 
shown in Figure 1.  
a)
E
quipment layer: The equipment layer is divided into the
climate change adjustment power generation area (Area A) and the equipment fault diagnosis and analysis area (Area B). Zone A collects the temperature and humidity measured by the climate measurement controller, as well as the data on the 
anemometer and wind direction meter, and delivers them to the 
platform layer. Zone B delivers the data at the faults on the tower, nacelle, hub and blades through the controller of the wind turbine to the coordina tion layer to analyze the fault data, 
characteristics and response information, and carry out screening.  
b)
C
oordination layer: the equipment operation management 
and fault analysis platform in this layer analyses the fault information from Zone B, sends the obtained response information and response characteristics to the fault analysis platform and database respectively, and uses the calling 
information, data, power generation, and equipment 
EAI Endorsed Transactions on 
Energy Web 
| Volume 11 | 2024 |
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 Analysis and Design of Wind Turbine Monitoring System Based on Edge Computing  
  
 information transmitted back from the platform layer to be sent to Zone B for fault diagnosis.  
c) Platform layer: collects data from the equipment layer, 
transports the data to the fault analysis platform and files it.  
C l i m at e M easurem ent  
C ont r ol l erA-C l i m at e change 
a d ju ste d  e le c tric ity  
generat i on (real -tim e  
r educt i on)
W i nd Tur bi ne 
C ont r ol l erB-Equi pm ent  f aul t  
di agnosi s and 
anal ysi sD at a 
C o lle c tio n电电电电电
电电Equi pm ent  
Fai l ure 
F ilin gF a u lt A n a ly sis 
P latfo rmC a ll 
I nf or m at i on
C l ear R esul t sFaul t  D at abase
C a ll 
I nf or m at i onR esponse 
I nf or m at i onC l ear 
R e su ltsR esponse 
C haract eri st i c
M at eor ol ogi cal  dat a and pow er  
gener at i on opt i m i zat i on,  equi pm ent  
pow er  gener at i on i nf or m at i onA nal yze faul t  dat a for 
screeni ng,  charact eri st i cs,  
and r esponse i nf or m at i onEqui pm ent  O per at i on 
M anagem ent  and Faul t  
A n a ly sis P la tfo rm
Tow er  D r um    Engi ne R oom        H ub       B l ade    A nem om et er   W i nd V ane  Tem per at ur e  H um i di t y  Pl at form  L ayer
C oor di nat i on Layer
Equi pm ent  Layer
 
Figure 1.  Schematic diagram of the overall system 
framework  
3.2. System functional design  
Each functional module of the wind turbine monitoring system is shown in Fig. 2, which contains the functions of data management and analysis of the tower, nacelle, hub and blades under various working conditions, diagnosis of equipment 
status, and predict ion of equipment health.  
(a) Data Management  
The module classifies and stores the raw data collected by 
various types of sensors distributed on wind turbines, in which 
relational data and non -relational data are stored separately to 
achieve the import management functions of structured and 
unstructur ed data. The module can distinguish structured data 
and unstructured data according to the type of sensors; the 
unstructured data is stored in HBase and managed by copying, deleting, transferring, etc., while structured data are stored in MySQL to achieve backup, transferring and deleting functions 
[15]. 
(b) Data Processing  
In the edge computing environment, the distance between the 
WTG equipment and the edge server is closer, the data transmission and information exchange is faster, and the energy cost cost of computation offloading at the edge server is small, based on the distributed computing of Hadoop and the deep 
learning algorithm of edge computing, to play the role of the edge node in the WTG health status monitoring system, and to use the deep reinforcement learning method to formulate the offloading decision and the resource allocation algorithm.  
(c) Condition Diagnosis  
Diagnosis of the health status of the WTG.
  
(d) Life Prediction  
This function is mainly used to predict the life of WTGs, 
determine whether the current WTG has reached the life dacay stage, and estimate the remaining life of the equipment.  
(e) Data Visualization  
Realize real -time monitoring of WTG status, real -time 
display of WTG status change trends, and timely presentation of WTG equipment maintenance decision.  W i nd Tur bi ne H eal t h M oni t or i ng 
Sys t em
D at a 
m anagem entD at a 
pr ocessi ngS ta tu s 
di agnsi sLi f e  
or edi ct i onD at a 
v isu a liz a tio nS y s t e m 
m anagem ent
St r uct ur ed 
dat a
U nst r uct ur e
d dat aSt at e 
r ecogni t i on
St at e 
pr edi ct i onSi ngl e 
i ndex 
pr edi ct i on
M ul t i  i ndex 
pr edi ct i onH isto ric a l 
dat a
O nl i ne dat aUs e r  
m anagem ent
S y s t e m 
se ttin g s
To we r  
Dr u mEngi ne 
R oomHu b Bl a d e
D at a 
pr epr ocessi ng
Feat ure 
ext ract i on
Feat ure 
sel ect i on
Feat ure 
f usi on 
Figure 2.  Block diagram of the main functional 
modules of the system  
(f) System administration  
System management is divided into user management and 
system setting, in which user management facilitates users to directly carry out maintenance or update according to various data returned from the system, and system setting makes correct adjustments to WTGs according to real -time updated da ta to 
improve the life of WTGs.  
4. Construction and analysis of the 
system model  
4.1. System modelling  
The system model required for data processing: the WTGs 
perform a single computational unloading using multiple edge nodes, and the edge nodes can interact with neighbouring edge nodes with real -time information. Let the set of vibration 
modelling subtasks  for WTGs be:  
{ }12, ,...,L
w ww wR RR R=                                                              (1) 
Among them, wR contains several sub -tasks, such as 
vibration correlation analysis, establishment of vibration prediction model for each WTG, model training and evaluation, 
and calling the optimal model, etc., 
L is the number of sub -
tasks, and w is the serial number of WTGs.  The dependency 
relationship between the sub- tasks of WTG vibration modelling 
subtasks is expressed as:    
{ },, , 0,1ww
w ij ijLLDe d
×= ∈                                          (2) 
When ,1w
ijd= denotes that the subtask j
wR depends on 
subtask i
wR, the input of subtask j
wR is the output of subtask 
i
wR, when ,0w
ijd= means subtask j
wR does not depend on 
subtask i
wR. 
During the task offloading process, whether the subtask data 
is cached or not affects its execution delay and energy 
consumption, a cache identifier is defined to indicate whether 
EAI Endorsed Transactions on 
Energy Web 
| Volume 11 | 2024 |
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
X. Yin et al.  
 
 the subtask data is cached at the edge node or not. An offload 
identifier is also defined to indicate whether the WTG subtask 
needs to be offloaded to the edge node for computation.  When 
subtask i
wR is computed at the local smart terminal device, its 
local computation time and energy consumption are computed 
as:  
     i
i w
w i
wcTf=                                                                   (3) 
( )2i ii
w wwE kf c=                                                         (4) 
In the formula: i
wc is the data volume of the subtask i
wR ; 
i
wf is the computing resources allocated to the subtask i
wR by 
the local smart terminal device, and k denotes the energy 
consumption coefficient.  
If the local end device lacks sufficient computational 
resources, all or part of the subtasks can be offloaded to an edge node with more computational capability for computation. The delay of subtask data transmission to the edge node is calculated as: 
       
,
,i up
i up w
w i
wcTr=                                                               (5) 
,
,,i i up
i up i i up ww
w ww i
wpcE pTr= =                                                      (6)  
In the formula: ,i up
wc is the amount of data uploaded by the 
subtask to the edge node, i
wr is the channel rate at which the 
data is uploaded; i
wp is the communication energy power 
consumed by the subtask to upload to the edge node.  
The latency of subtask data processing at the edge node is 
calculated as:  
       ,
,i ha
i ha w
w icTf=                                                                (7) 
 ,,
, ,,i ha i ha
i ha i ha i ha w
ipcE pTf= =                          (8) 
In the formula: ,i ha
wc is the amount of data processed by the 
subtasks offloaded to the edge node, if is the computation rate 
of the edge node, ,i hap is the energy power consumed by the 
subtask offloaded to the edge node.  
The cache hit rate is used to reflect the average probability of 
a subtask k
wR requesting a cache file in a given time, denoted by 
the variable p, which has the mathematical expression:  
( ),, k kf jf
k Lf Fj L Ngp c
PL∈∈∈∗∗
=∑∑ ∑
                                   (9)  
In the formula: kg denotes the probability that a subtask k
wR 
requests a cached file; ( ), |kfp pfk=  denotes the conditional 
probability that subtask k
wR requests a cached file f; and ,ijc 
denotes the state of whether a cached file f is cached at edge 
node j, the number of subtasks is L, the set of cached content files is F, and the number of edge nodes content with caches 
is N. 
For the wind turbine vibration modelling optimization 
problem, the computational offloading fusion content caching 
strategy can be modelled as a multi- source data optimization on 
the device side, realizing the cache space and the edge side of 
the device, with the objective function expressed as:  
( )1
1min 1
ijw
off
i i ii
iC z C zC
==−+∑                     (10) 
                ( ),,
maxk kf jf
k Lf Fj L Ngp c
pL∈∈∈∗∗
=∑∑ ∑
           (11)  
  1
max2
3: 0 1,
.. :0 ,
:,i
ij
ii m
iwC z iw
st C f F i w
C pd H i w
∈≤ ≤ ∀∈≤ ∀∈ 
≤ ∀∈∑<                           (12)  
The offloading decision of the WTG terminal equipment 
with serial number i is defined as iz; ip is the transmit power 
of the WTG terminal equipment of i; id denotes the spatial 
distance between the WTG terminal equipment and the edge 
node, 1
wC is the cost cost at the equipment end, and off
wC is the 
cost cost for the edge to collaborate with the computation at the 
equipment end; the constraint 1C denotes that the task 
offloading decision of each WTG equipment is to be either 
locally computed or offloaded to the edge node for processing; 
the constraint 2C denotes that the sum of computation power at 
the edge end is to be less than the maximum computing power 
of any system in the network; the constraint denotes that the total data volume of the equipment at the edge is to be less than 
the maximum cache spac e. The constraint 
max
jF  indicates that 
the sum of computational power at the edge is less than the 
maximum computational power of any system in the network; 
and the constraint 3C indicates that the total data volume of the 
devices at the edge is less than the maximum cache space mH. 
The system is based on the optimal solution of offloading 
decision and computational resource allocation to achieve the 
purpose of reducing energy consumption. The optimal offloading policy search is achieved according to multiple optimization objectives b ased on time delay, energy efficiency 
and cache hit rate, and this multi- objective optimization 
function is non- convex and the optimal solution becomes more 
difficult to solve as the number of terminal devices increases. Applying deep reinforcement learnin g to this type of decision 
problem has obvious advantages.  
4.2. Computational offloading optimisation 
scheme based on edge computing  
Deep reinforcement learning 
Deep Learning (DL) belongs to a kind of machine learning, which is to generalize the regular characteristics from the sampled information and then obtain the relevant features, 
EAI Endorsed Transactions on 
Energy Web 
| Volume 11 | 2024 |
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 Analysis and Design of Wind Turbine Monitoring System Based on Edge Computing  
  
 during which it needs to be achieved by exploring the distributed characteristics of the information.  
Reinforcement Learning (RL) belongs to a kind of 
unsupervised learning machine learning, Reinforcement Learning models can be further classified as policy or value function -based learning models, Reinforcement Learning has 
outstanding advantages in making intelligent decisions, and is able to find the optimal effect of actions in different 
environments [16].  
DQN (Deep Q- Network, DQN) algorithm is improved based 
on the classical reinforcement learning algorithm Q -learning. 
However, the application of DQN algorithm is relatively limited, 
and it can't handle the continuous action control well, which can effectively solve the continuous state space and discrete action 
space problems. To address this problem on the basis of the 
DQN algorithm is extended, the DDPG algorithm is proposed, the algorithm can effectively deal with linear data.  
Wind turbine health monitoring task unloading based on DDPG  
Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG) is a DRL specific algorithm based on policy gradient. The principle of DDPG algorithm is shown in Figure 3.  
Exper i nece
Pl ayback 
Un i tAc t o r n
e t wo r kC ritic  
net w or k
L oss 
f unct i onSt r at egy 
gr adi entO nl i ne 
net w or k
a
Ac t o r n
e t wo r kC ritic  
net w or kT arget  
net w or k
aupdat eupdat e
s
a
r
s
 
Figure 3.  DDPG structure diagram  
The problem of modelling wind turbines is optimised based 
on the deep reinforcement learning algorithm DDPG. The intelligences are deployed at the edge computing server and are responsible for calculating the optimal offloading scheme for the set of subtasks, which is able to make the best decisions in a 
network environment where the system resources vary over 
time, taking into account the interactions between the subtask decisio ns. The DDPG is used to formulate reasonable 
offloading decisions for the subtasks of the WTG health status monitoring system and to allocate computational resources for the tasks that are offloaded to the edge servers for execution, so 
that the task execution completion delay is minimized.  
4.3. Algorithm simulation validation and 
performance evaluation 
To evaluate the performance of the proposed DDPG offloading 
strategy, this paper creates an edge computing network environment for simulation and analysis using Python. Q -
learning as well as DDPG deep reinforcement learning 
networks are built through the machine learning open -source 
platform TensorFlow to achieve the simulation analysis of the 
offloading of the wind tu rbine vibration modelling task. 
Compare the effects of all local computation of the modelling task, computation completely offloaded to the e dge server, and 
computation using Q -learning as well as DDPG. In local 
computation, all the task data collected by all the WTG end -
devices execute the computation on the local devices without offloading the computation. In complete offloading, all task data collected by all WTG terminal devices are offloaded to the 
edge nodes to perform computation, and the edge node computation resources are evenly distributed. The simulation 
parameters are set as shown in Table 1.  
Table 1. Simulation parameter settings  
parametric  set value  
Number of wind turbines  10 
Number of wind turbine terminal  10 
The distance between the equipment and the 
base station  100 /m  
Task data size  500/ kB  
Number of tasks  10 
Data computing power provided by end 
devices  1/ (GHz·s-1) 
Communication energy power consumption 
of nodes  0.5/ w  
Amount of data uploaded to edge nodes  100-500 /kB  
Computing power of edge nodes  5/(GHz/s-1) 
Energy power for task offloading to edge 
node computing  0.1/ w  
Terminal equipment energy consumption 
factor  10-20 
MEC Cache Capacity  1% 
Actor Network Learning Rate  0.01 
Critic Network Learning Rate  0.01 
5. Results analysis and comparison  
As the number of WTG end -devices continues to increase the 
total energy consumption of fully local computation, fully 
offloaded computation, Q -learning based and offloaded based 
DDPG algorithms are increasing. As the number of terminal devices increases, t he edge nodes and terminal devices cannot 
provide sufficient computational resources for the modelling task of each WTG device. When the number of WTG terminal devices is less than 5, the total energy consumption of both Q -
learning -based and DDPG -based alg orithms offloading is small 
and the difference is not significant. When the number of WTG end devices is greater than 5, the offloading strategy based on the DDPG algorithm produces lower total energy consumption than the other three offloading strategies.  Overall, the 
computational offloading strategy based on the DDPG algorithm is more effective in reducing the total energy 
consumption compared to the three strategies of completely 
EAI Endorsed Transactions on 
Energy Web 
| Volume 11 | 2024 |
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
X. Yin et al.  
 
 local computing, completely offloading computing, and based 
on the Q -learning algorithm. The effect of the number of WTG 
terminal devices on the total energy consumption is shown in Fig. 4.  
 
Figure 4.  The influence of the number of fan towers on 
the total energy consumption of edge computing  
As the computational power of the edge nodes increases, 
more computational resources can be provided to the WTG end devices, and the total energy consumption for completing the offloading of the WTG modelling task is decreasing. As shown 
in Fig. 5, the imp act of edge node computing power on total 
energy consumption. When the computational power of the 
edge node is less than 2.5 GHz/s, performing local computation has a more obvious effect on reducing energy consumption than the other three offloading strategies. The computational power of the edge node is weaker, and the processing efficiency of 
performing local computation at the WTG terminal equipment 
will be higher compared to offloading the task to the edge node. When the computing power of the edge node  is greater than 
3GHz/s, the offloading strategy based on DDPG is more effective in reducing energy consumption than completely local 
computing, completely offloading, and offloading strategy 
based on Q -learning. This indicates that when the 
computational capacity of the edge node is sufficient, the edge 
node can share some of the subtasks of the WTG end -device 
modelling task, and the computational offloading strategy can be used to efficiently use the edge node computational resources 
and significantly red uce the energy consumption. The DDPG -
based offloading strategy is better than the complete offloading 
and Q -learning -based offloading strategies in reducing energy 
consumption. In summary, the proposed DDPG -based 
computational offloading strategy for WTG m odelling 
significantly outperforms the fully local, fully offloaded and Q -
learning -based offloading strategies in reducing the total energy 
consumption when the edge computing capacity is sufficient [17].  
Figure 5.  The impact of edge node computing power 
on total energy consumption 
In order to further evaluate the comprehensive 
performance of the computational offloading strategies for WTG modelling based on the DDPG algorithm, the number 
of WTG terminal devices continues to increase within the 
processing range of the edge nodes, and  the processing time 
of each computational offloading strategy for multiple WTGs is compared. As shown in Fig. 6, as the number of WTG terminal devices increases, the task data to be processed also increases, so the computation time of these four strategies is 
increasing. If the processing is done only by the WTG 
terminal equipment with weak computational capability, the processing time is too long when performing tasks with a large amount of data.  
100 200 300 400 500020040060080010001200140016001800 C om put i ng t i m e /s
N um ber  of  w i nd t ur bi nes/ pl at f or m local computing
 Complete uninstallation calculation
 Q-learning
 DDPG
 
Figure 6.  Comparison of computation time of each 
algorithm  
Comparison of the computation time of the four strategies 
shows that when the number of WTG equipment is 300, the computational speed of the computational offloading strategy based on the DDPG algorithm is 5.1 times faster than that of performing local com putation, 3.4 times faster than that of 
complete offloading computation, and 1.8 times faster than that of the computational offloading strategy based on the Q -
learning algorithm, and the DDPG -based WTG modelling 
proposed in this paper The computational offloading strategy based on DDPG proposed in this paper reduces the task  
 
EAI Endorsed Transactions on 
Energy Web 
| Volume 11 | 2024 |
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 Analysis and Design of Wind Turbine Monitoring System Based on Edge Computing  
  
 execution time and improves the task processing efficiency. In summary, the DDPG -based computational offloading strategy 
for WTG modelling is significantly better than other offloading strategies in terms of computational speed.  
6. Summary  
This paper applies Hadoop and edge computing offloading strategy based on DDPG algorithm in the wind turbine monitoring system to get the following conclusions: meets the demand of large -scale wind turbine data in storage and analysis; 
solves the problem o f data, computing and storage in wind 
turbine operation; through the task offloading decision in the data analysis layer in the wind turbine monitoring system and server resource allocation solving problem Joint modelling is carried out to maximize the cache hit rate and minimize the energy cost cost of user equipment. Tests show that the 
computation offloading strategy based on the DDPG algorithm 
improves the computational efficiency of the system, reduces time consumption and energy loss, and has a good a pplication 
value for the diagnosis and analysis of equipment at the edge.  
However, there are still some parts of the health monitoring of 
WTGs that are worthy of our continued research. As the system is affected by the complex external environment and different operating conditions, we can consider mixing other optimization algo rithms for parameter optimization in order to 
improve the prediction accuracy and stability of the system, so that it can be applied to other complex operating conditions of WTGs; and we can consider adding optimization objectives such as user service qual ity in the later stage, in order to 
investigate the performance of the algorithm and improve its performance. We can consider adding optimization objectives such as customer service quality to explore better performance optimization algorithms in the futur e. 
Acknowledgements.  
China University Innovation Fund -- New Generation  Information 
Technology Innovation Key Project, No. 2022IT017; Education 
Reform Project of China Institute of Labor Electronics in 2022, No. CIEL2022060; Cooperative Education Program of Ministry of Education, No.220900287260151, No. 202102602013; Key Proje ct 
of Graduate Education and Teaching Research and Reform of Tianjin Agricultural University, No. 2021-YA-6; Talent Support Program of Tianjin Agricultural University, No.  Y0400907; School -
enterprise cooperation technology researched development project 
(TNHXKJ2022074 ) 
References  
[1] Li Yao, Zhu Caichao, Tao Youchuan, et al. Research Status and 
Development Tendency of Wind Turbine Reliability[J]. China 
Mechanical Engineering, 2017, 28(09): 1125-1133.  
[2] Dong Yuting, Wang Haiyun, Tang Xinan. Status of Wind 
Turbine Condition Monitoring System[J]. Electric Machines & Control Application, 2013, 40(01): 17- 21. 
[3] Cheng Jiangzhou, Feng Xinyi, Feng Mengting, et al. Wind 
Turbine Fault Diagnosis and Risk Prediction Considering Meteorological Factors[J]. Science Technology and Engineering, 2022, 22(22): 9645- 9615.  
[4] Zhang Jinhua, Wu Wenjing, Wang Zhuoran, et al. RESEARCH 
OF WIND FARM OPTIMAL SCHE -DULING BASED ON 
REDUCING WIND FARM LOSSES[J]. Acta Energiae Solaris Sinica, 2018, 39(04): 1085-1096.  
[5] Song Wei, Lin Jianwei, Zhou Fangze, et al. Wind turbine bearing 
fault diagnosis method based on an improved denoising AutoEncoder[J]. Power System Protection and Control, 2022, 50(10): 61- 68. 
[6] Han Pingping, Zhang Xiangmin, Ding Ming, et al. Application 
of Data Storage and Analysis Technology of Hadoop to Wind Power Grid -connected System[J]. Proceedings of the CSU -
EPSA, 2018, 30(01): 43- 50. 
[7] Wang Lintong, Zhao Teng, Zhang Yan, et al. Storage 
optimization and parallel query method for big data of wind power monitoring based on Hadoop[J]. Electrical Measurement & Instrumentation, 2018, 55(11): 1- 6. 
[8] Liu Shuren, Song Yaqi, Zhu Yongli, et al. Research on Data 
Storage for Smart Grid Condition Monitoring Using Hadoop[J]. Computer Science, 2013, 40(01): 81-84.  
[9] Zhou Niancheng, Liao Jianquan, Wang Qianggang, et al. 
Analysis and Prospect of Deep Learning Application in Smart 
Grid[J]. Automation of Electric Power Systems, 2019, 43(04): 
180-191.  
[10] Cuervo E, Balasubramanian A, Cho DK, et al. MAUI: Making 
smartphones last longer with code offload[C]// International 
Conference on Mobile Systems. DBLP, 2010.  
[11] Chae D, Kim J, Kim J, et al. CMcloud: Cloud Platform for Cost -
Effective Offloading of Mobile Applications[C]// 2014 14th 
IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster, Cloud and 
Grid Computing (GGGrid). ACM, 2014.  
[12] Chen Xiao, Liu Wei, Chen Jing, et al. Research on Computing 
Offload Strategy in Edge Computing Environment[J]. Fire 
Control & Command Control, 2022, 47(01): 7- 14+9.  
[13] Li Qiang, Du Tingting, Tong Zhao, et al. Dependent Task 
Offload Based on Deep Reinforcement Learning in Mobile Edge Computing[J]. Journal of Chinese Computer Systems, 2023, 44(07): 1463-1469.  
[14] Zhang Bingjie, Yang Yanhong, Cao Shaozhong. Review of 
Computing Offloading Schemes for Multi -access Edge 
Computing[J]. Journal of Frontiers of Computer Science and Technology, 2023, 17(09): 2030- 2046.  
[15] Wu Jun, Chen Zuoyi, Yan Zhe, et al. Development of Ship 
Bearing Health Condition Monitoring System Based on Hadoop[J]. Journal of Ordnance Equipment Engineering, 2020, 41(01): 140- 144. 
[16] Zeng Feng, Zhang Zheng, Chen Zhigang. Computation 
offloading and resource allocation strategy based on deep reinforcement learning[J]. Journal on Communications, 2023, 44(07): 124-135.  
[17] Han Xiaofei, Song Qingyun, Han Ruiyan, et al. Survey on 
Mobile Edge Computing Offloading Technology[J]. Telecommunication Engineering, 2022, 62(09): 1368-1376.  
EAI Endorsed Transactions on 
Energy Web 
| Volume 11 | 2024 |
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
