International Journal of Busine ss and Management; V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
ISSN 1833-3850    E - I S S N  1833-8119 
Published by Canadian Center of Science and Education 
1 
 Optimization Models for  Operations and Main tenance of Offshore 
Wind Turbines Based on Artificia l Intelligence and Operations 
Research: A Systematic Literature Review 
Eric Lucas dos Santos Cabral1, Mario Orestes Aguirre González1, Priscila da Cunha Jácome Vidal1, João 
Florêncio da Costa Junior2, Rafael Monteiro de Vasconcelos3, David Cassimiro de Melo3, Ruan Lucas Leite de 
Morais3 & João Agra Neto1 
1 Science and Petroleum Engineering Postgraduate Program (PPGCEP ), Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Norte, Brazil 
2 Department of Administrative Sc iences (DEPAD), Universidade Fe deral do Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil 
³ Production Engineering Postgraduate Program (PEP), Universidad e Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil 
Correspondence: Eric Lucas dos San tos Cabral, Science and Petro leum Engineering Postgraduate Program 
(PPGCEP), Universidade Federal d o Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, B razil. E-mail: ericlu cascabral94@gmail.com  
 Received: December 12, 2023       Accepted: March 14, 2024       Online Published: March 31, 2024  
doi:10.5539/ijbm.v19n3p1          URL: https://doi.org/10.5539/ ijbm.v19n3p1
 
 
Abstract Maintenance of offshore wind turbines is critical for expanding  wind energy production, yet it presents 
significant challenges due to harsh operational conditions. Thi s issue, discussed extensively in Operations and 
Maintenance (O&M) periodicals, can hinder the economic viabilit y of wind energy. With European and 
emerging markets planning large-scale wind energy production, o ptimizing installation and maintenance 
resources is crucial. Our research focuses on numerical techniq ues to inform maintenance strategies and 
decisions, addressing key discussion areas. Our methodology inv olves a systematic literature review of 122 
scientific works, with descriptiv e and content analyses reveali ng insights into maintenance planning. 
Quantitative techniques, while studied separately, can enhance understanding of technical  aspects in maintenance 
decision-making, provided their limitations are addressed. The research underscores the importance of 
considering various factors in o ffshore wind farm maintenance p lanning to align with planner objectives. 
Keywords:  offshore wind energy, O&M, opt imization, artificial intelligen ce, operations research 
1. Introduction The production of renewable energy has expanded worldwide encou raged by decarbonization initiatives of major 
economies, the rearrangements of supply chains, caused by the C OVID-19 pandemic as well as geopolitical 
conflicts, such as the Russia-Ukra ine war. Wind energy, especia lly offshore, has stood out in this scenario due to 
its significant capacity factor ( in some projects, equivalent t o 40 ~ 50%) and the regulation of its environmental 
requirements for installation projects, which is aligned to the  sustainable performance goals formulated by 
multilateral institutions such as  the United Nations (UN) (Iea,  2019; Nerlinger & Utz, 2022; Serafini et.al, 2022). 
The growth registered by the wind industry in the last two year s is unprecedented: in 2021 there was a growth of 
1.8% in installed capacity when compared to 2020, which totalle d 94 GW. Onshore and offshore wind farms 
correspond, respectively, to 77% and 23% of this total. These r esults support the understanding of the energy 
sector's resilience in the face of the serious economic crises that affect countries in the second decade of the 21st 
century. In 2023, relevant political changes in emerging countr ies such as Brazil and interventions by 
international monetary authorities in the most industrialized n ations to reduce inflationary trends will have 
repercussions as well as the enactment of policies that acceler ate the expansion of renewable energies by 2030. 
(Mckenna et.al, 2015; Reis et.al, 2021; Gwec, 2022; Gwec, 2023) . 
T h i s  s i g n i f i c a n t  g r o w t h  i s  a  r e s u l t  o f  t h e  n e w  o f f s h o r e  w i n d  f a rms, supported by European and emerging 
countries as a strategy to remain competitive in the production  of durable consumer goods and commodities. 
However, there are considerable challenges to be overcome in th is industry, such as the high dependence on an 
adequate port infrastructure, close to the energy producing par ks; regional regulatory an d technical aspects that 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
2 
 can hinder the production and distribution of the energy; and t he maintenance of wind turbines, a limitation 
which can severely impair continuous growth due to high industr ial costs (Baagøe-engels & Stentoft, 2016; 
Akbari et.al, 2016; De castro, 2019; Nguyen et.al, 2022). 
Studies on wind turbine maintenance present computational model s that improve the accuracy of Maintenance 
Planning and Control initiatives by up to 94%, contributing to the optimization of the costs involved in this 
process. The offshore environment, unlike onshore, limits the a ccessibility to wind turbines and subjects them to 
faster degradation processes than on land, which makes operatio n and maintenance challenging and expensive 
(Boccard, 2009; Sinha & Stell, 2 015; Poulsen & Hasager, 2016; K ang et.al, 2019; Falani et.al, 2020). 
Some works have been addressing the main gaps identified in the  studies on offshore wind turbine maintenance. 
For stance, a study carried out b y Ilić et.al (2011) addresses the issue of preventive maintenance for wind 
turbines, including the identification of failures, maintenance  techniques and maintenance schedule optimization. 
Moreover, another study carried out by Morales et.al (2018) pro poses a model for scheduling the maintenance of 
offshore wind turbines using mathematical optimization techniqu es. Likewise, a study carried out by Skaare et.al 
(2016) analysed the impact of maintenance on the availability a nd lifetime of offshore wind turbines. Also, Costa 
et.al (2021) addresses the maintenance of offshore wind turbine s ,  i d e n t i f y i n g  g a p s  i n  t e r m s  o f  m o n i t o r i n g ,  
inspection and fault diagnosis. The authors highlight the impor tance of new technologies and tools for the 
maintenance of offshore turbines, including drones, robots and remote sensors. Finally, Chen (2019) highlights 
the importance of preventive and corrective maintenance for off shore wind turbines, as well as the lack of 
accurate data on the performance and lifetime of these turbines . The authors highlight the importance of a 
systematic approach to the maint enance of offshore turbines, wh ich takes into account factors such as reliability, 
safety and cost-effectiveness. 
A c c o r d i n g l y ,  t h e  c u r r e n t  s y s t e m a t i c  r e v i e w  f o c u s e s  o n  t h e  d i s c u ssion of numerical techniques commonly 
addressed to direct the most appr opriate maintenance strategies , maintenance scheduling and health diagnosis of 
critical components within wind installations, especially those  offshore, in order to ensure the maintainability of 
these assets, reducing opera tion and maintenance costs. 
Thus, some of the key questions the current work seeks to addre ss are: a) What are the main techniques used to 
optimise operations and maintenance of wind turbines, especiall y in the offshore scenario? b) What is the main 
data needed to analyse the predictability of failures of these assets? c) What are the advantages and 
disadvantages of the different methods presented in the studies ? d) Which methods lack an in-depth conceptual 
discussion and therefore make roo m for new basic research? e) A lthough some of these methods are studied 
individually, what are the consequences of overcoming their dis tinctions for the planning of Operations and 
Maintenance of offshore wind turbines?  
It is evident that the techniques of Artificial Intelligence an d Operations Research, usually applied in optimising 
the aspects discussed so far, although acting axiomatically wit h distinct preference structures, can converge to a 
complete understanding of the technical aspects involved in the  decision to perform preventive, predictive or 
corrective maintenance, mitigating the uncertain conditions und er which the decision maker has to act (Roy, 
1996; Hillier; Lieberman, 2013).  
2. Method According to the definition of the Oslo Manual (1997) of the Or ganization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development (OECD), scientific research is "original and planne d investigation that aims to discover new 
knowledge and achieve advances in scientific understanding. Sim ilarly, according to Kerli nger (1986), scientific 
research is the process of formulating problems, collecting dat a, analysing and interpreting them, in addition to 
disseminating results, with the aim of answering questions of k nowledge. Also, Bunge (2003) argues that 
scientific research is a systematic, controlled, empirical and critical investigation of hypotheses about the 
relationship between phenomena.  
A systematic review is a structured and methodologically rigoro us approach to the identification, evaluation and 
synthesis of all relevant studies on a specific research questi on (Moher et.al, 2009); a pplying clearly defined 
methods to obtain relevant evidence from a specific research to pic, with the aim of identifying gaps in 
knowledge and guiding future research (Grant & Booth, 2009; Hig gins & Green, 2011; González & Toledo, 
2012). The current study is a systematic literature review. Thu
s, it aims to generate structured knowledge on a 
topic whilst it is developed in stages, which are detailed in F igure 1. 
 
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
3 
  
Figure 1. Research stages 
 
In the first stage, the research sought to identify studies tha t addressed methods for optimising decision-making 
in Operations and Maintenance (O&M) in the Offshore Wind Energy  based on research in the Periódicos Capes 
database (which brings together Scopus, Web of Science and Scie nce Direct databases, amongst others, allowing 
access to a wide quantitative range  of studies ali gned with the  research theme).  
Subsequently, the second stage was initiated, which consisted o f finding articles through a search on the platform 
Periódicos CAPES, using the following keywords: “AI decision ma king”, “Optimization”, “Big Data”, 
“Computer Simulation”, “Offshore Wind”; “Operations Management Installation”, “Operations and 
Maintenance”, “Maintenance Sche duling” and “Offshore Wind Farms ”.  
In the third stage, the relevant articles were selected and the ir abstracts analysed. Articles that were not related to 
the research objective were excluded. As a result, 122 articles  were selected (73 as content articles and 49 as 
support articles for the analysis).  
In the fourth stage of the research, the texts were read and ex tracted, as well as their classification in terms of 
structure and content, through the elaboration of an Excel® spr eadsheet, observing the following elements: 
keywords, title, year, author, country where the research was c onducted, origin of the authors, journal/congress 
proceedings, University/Research C enter/Company, type of study,  approach, objectives, re search object, research 
focus, objective of the article, results found, employed quanti tative/qualitative method, advantages and 
disadvantages of the catalogued methods. Finally, in the fifth stage, the results were prepared for subsequent 
publication. 
3. Results and Discussions  3.1 Quantitative Methods and Decision Making Decision-making can be conceived as the choice by a decision-ma king centre (an individual or a group of 
individuals) of “the best” amongst “the possible ones”; thus, d ecision is related to reasoning. One of the possible 
definitions of artificial intelli gence (AI) refers to cognitive  processes and, mainly, to reasoning. Before making 
any decision, people also reason, so it is expected to explore the links between AI and decision making 
(Rezamand et.al, 2020;  Bouzekri et.al, 2017; Antoniadou et.al, 2015). 
When focusing on areas in which the presence of judgement, deci sions and human evaluations is significant, 
such as decision analysis, the decision-making process may be c onvoluted; thus, the application of formal 
modelling tools is highly complex, leading to difficulties in a ddressing the imprecision related to such areas and 
problems (Zadeh, 2015). 
In order to account for the impr ecision related to such situati ons, it is necessary the use of fuzzy sets: the variety 
with which they could be used would require a significant regis tration effort, a fact that makes a more specialised 
theoretical contribution necessar y, which is not the objective of the current study.  The current authors have 
attempted to exemplify its most common representation, which is  the triangular shape, e xplained axiomatically 
in the following definitions purposes. 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
4 
 Definition 1: Consider X a space of objects generically represented by x. In that case, a fuzzy set Ã in 𝑋 is 
characterised by an association or compatibility function 𝜇Ã(𝑥) that associates each object in Ã with a real 
number between 0 and 1 (Zadeh, 1965). 
Ã=ቄ ቀ x , μ Ã  (x)ቁ ቚ x  ϵ  X ቅ                                  ( 1 )  
Definition 2: The real fuzzy numbers are then de fined as a convex and normalised fuzzy subset  𝐴ሚ of the real 
line 𝑅 with the association function 𝜇Ã(𝑥) that satisfies the following properties  (Dubois & Prade, 1980; Liao 
et.al, 2013; Castro, 2020): 
a) μÃ(x) is a continuous mapping of R for the closed range [0,1].  
b) μÃ(x)=0 for all objects x ϵ (−∞,  a ) .  
c) μÃ(x) is strictly increasing on the interval [a, b]. 
d) μÃ(x)=1 for all objects x ϵ [b, c]. 
e) μÃ(x) is strictly decreasing on the interval [c, d]. 
f) μÃ(x)=0 for all objects x ϵ [d,+∞]. 
Whence a, b, c and d are Real Numbers. 
Assuming  𝑥, 𝑙, 𝑚, 𝑢 𝜖 𝑅 → [0,1] , so that  { 𝑥  𝜖  𝑅  |  𝑙<𝑥<𝑢 } . A triangular fuzzy  number T෩ is defined as: 
μ୘෩(x) = {ଵ
୫ି୪x−  ୪
୫ି୪,    x  ϵ  [ l , m ]  ଵ
୫ି୳x−୳
୫ି୳,   x ϵ [m, u] 0, Otherwise         ( 2 )  
Figure 2 illustrates the triangul ar fuzzy numbers’ behaviour. 
 
Figure 2. Triangular fuzzy number. 
Source . Elizabeth and Sujatha (2015). 
Definition 3: Assuming two triangular fuzzy numbers denoted as Ã= (𝑙, 𝑚, 𝑢 ) and 𝑌෨(𝑦ଵ,𝑦ଶ,𝑦ଷ), operations 
with fuzzy numbers are as follows  (Chen, 2000; Elizabeth; Sujatha, 2015; Castro, 2020) 
a) Addition: A෩(+)Y෩=(l+y ଵ,m+y ଶ,u+y ଷ)  l≥0 , y ଵ≥0; 
b) Subtraction: A෩(−)Y෩=(l−y ଵ,m−y ଶ,u−y ଷ)  l≥0 , y ଵ≥0; 
c) Multiplication: A෩(×)Y෩=(l×y ଵ,m×y ଶ,u×y ଷ)  l≥0 , y ଵ≥0; 
d) Division: A෩(÷)Y෩=(l÷y ଵ,m÷y ଶ,u÷y ଷ) l≥0 ,y ଵ≥0. 
Assuming a scalar or constant  k  ∈ R  there will also be the following operations: 
a) Multiplication: A෩(×)k= (l × k, m × k, u × k )  l≥0 , k≥0 ; 
b) Division: A෩(÷)k= (l ÷ k, m ÷ k, u ÷ k )  l≥0 ,k≥0 . 
Another important operation applied to fuzzy numbers is the dis tance between two numbe rs. The vertex method 
will be considered, however, ther e are several methods to calcu late the distance:    
d൫A෩,Y෩൯= ටଵ
ଷ [(l−y ଵ)ଶ+(m−y ଶ)ଶ+(u−y ଷ)ଶ                     ( 3 )  
Definition 4: Linguistic variables are variables that have their values represented by linguistic terms (ZADEH, 
1975).  These variables give support to approach complex or ill-defined decision-making situations that make it 
difficult to use quantitative expressions (Chen, 2001; Zadeh, 1975). 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
5 
 Trapezoidal fuzzy numbers are an extension of triangular fuzzy numbers and are widely used in fuzzy control 
systems. They are defined by a trapezoidal membership function,  which assigns a membership value to each 
possible value of the fuzzy variable. The trapezoidal membershi p function is defined by four parameters: a, b, c 
and d, wherein a ≤ b ≤  c ≤ d, according to t he following equati ons (Wang et.al, 2007; Kumar et.al, 2013): 
μ ( x )  =  ൝(x − a)/(b − a), a ൑  x ൑  b 
(c − x)/(c − b), b ൑  x ൑  c
0                      ( 4 )  
Figure 3 illustrates the behaviou r of trapezoidal fuzzy numbers : 
 
Figure 3. Trapezoidal fuzzy number 
Source.  Dinagar, Kamalanathan and Natarajan (2017). 
 
F u z z y  l o g i c  i s  o f t e n  u s e d  i n  c o n t r o l  s y s t e m s ,  a s  i t  a l l o w s  d e a l ing with situations in which accuracy is not 
critical, such as the maintenan ce of offshore wind turbines (Si erra-Garcia; Santos, 2021). Offshore wind 
turbine maintenance involves performing maintenance and repair tasks on such turbines. These tasks can be 
expensive and dangerous, and it's important to ensure they are only done when necessary. Fuzzy logic can be 
used to help determine when maintenance is required (Dao et.al,  2021). 
A fuzzy logic system can be constructed using linguistic rules that define the conditions under which 
maintenance is required. For instance, a rule might be "If turb ine vibration is high and wind speed is low, then 
maintenance is required". Fuzzy logic allows these rules to be expressed in terms like "high" and "low" rather 
than precise values (Qu et al., 2020). The system can then be f ed with data from sensors such as wind speed 
and turbine vibration and produce output that indicates whether  maintenance is required. The output can also 
be expressed in terms such as "highly recommended" or "cautious ly recommended" (Suganthi et.al, 2015). 
Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) are mathematical models that s eek to reproduce the biological brain’s 
behaviour pattern, including the ability to acquire, maintain a nd generalise knowledge. The most basic 
structure of an ANN is the artif icial neuron (Aladag et.al, 201 0; Van Belle et.al, 2014) 
As in the biological structure, an artificial neuron has n inpu ts referring to external stimuli. These signals are 
weighted by synaptic weights and then linearly combined. The re sult of this combination undergoes the action 
of an activation function whose main characteristic is to be a differentiable function, as shown in Figure 4 
(Guresen & Kayakutlu, 2011; Hajian & Styles, 2018):  
 
Figure 4. Schematic representation of an artificial neuron 
 
The activation function controls the level at which the neuron is activated besides the signal strength at the 
neuron's output. In general, nonlinear activation functions are  used, which translates into a rich ability to 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
6 
 approximate functions. Two of the most common activation functi ons are the sigmoidal, or logistic, function and 
the hyperbolic tangent (TANH) function. 
g(z)=σ(z)=ଵ
ଵାୣష౰                                       ( 5 )  
g(z)= tanh tanh (z) =(ୣ౰ିୣష౰)
(ୣ౰ାୣష౰)                               ( 6 )  
In which: 
𝑦 = 𝑤𝑇 ∗ 𝑥                                               ( 7 )  
Several studies address Neural N etworks and Genetic Algorithms for decision-making processes that require 
satisfactory performance in a context of randomness (Morshed & Kaluarachchi,1998; Li et.al, 2021). These 
studies explore the advantages and disadvantages of these two t echniques, aspects that will be explored in the 
current article. 
In the discussion involving metaheuristics, heuristics, simulat ion models and mixed integer linear programming, 
classical techniques, such as the travelling salesman problem ( TSP), are associated with models that propose the 
search for suboptimal solutions that adequately represent the d escribed optimization problem. On the other hand, 
simulation models based on Marcovian data series legitimately s eek alongside FIT functions to optimise 
scenarios that involve significan t costs to achieve predictabil ity. Whereas the simulation models build 
statistically reliable scenarios, it is evident that these mode ls are far from being integrated with the sequencing 
algorithms, which could contribute to improve the simulation re sults, since they address the allocation of 
resources in restricted scenarios (Kleinrock,1975; Law, 2007; H illier & Lieberman, 2006; Arenales, 2007). 
Sequencing problems are understoo d as those that occur, mainly,  in production facilities. Its basic formulation 
predicts that for each set of jobs n there is a number of machi nes m that are capable of executing them 
considering all the co nstraints to carry out the planned jobs s et (Hoogeveen, 2005; Zhou, 2018). 
3.2 Descriptive analysis 
Bibliometric results show decreas ing trends in the number of wo rks on the subject. Thus, further research may be 
relevant to boost current discussions, pointing to future new p aths to qualified scientif ic research. Figure 5 
outlines this trend. 
 
Figure 5. Trend in quantity of qualified publications per year  
 
The analysed works are mostly of a quantitative approach (studi es that explore the advantages and disadvantages 
of artificial intelligence techniques, combinatorial optimizati on and simulation to the planning and control of 
maintenance). There is, nonetheless, a significant percentage o f qualitative research, utilising techniques that 
allow mapping decisions related to planning oriented to mainten ance strategies. These listed points are illustrated 
in Figure 6. 
 
Figure 6. Approach to systematised studies 
 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
7 
 Most of the research analysed ar e classified as modelling and s imulation followed by case studies. Thus, it is 
possible to infer that research developers on the subject are i nterested in evaluating scenarios in applied contexts 
to test the sensitivity of variables that are of interest to de cision models, despite the need to investigate 
randomness of the maintenance cost variable as well as its rela tionship with the reliability of the assets that are 
under scrutiny of the operations planning. Figure 7 shows the c ategorization of studies  regarding its methods. 
 
Figure 7. Catalogued search methods 
 
Based on the presented data, the authors found the need to obse rve in what sense the key words of these studies 
were aggregated and what likely subjects may influence the curr ent literature review. The result showed that the 
maintenance of wind turbines in the offshore scenario; the unde rstanding of its logistical aspects (such as the 
modals that should assist in the transport of the teams that pe rformed these maintenances); and the monitoring 
and evaluation of failures to ensure reliability in the aggrava ting scenario of energy production at sea, since 
faster degradation of wind turbine components is expected, seem s to be the main scope on which the current 
research will focus. Figure 8 di splays the keyword analysis. 
 
Figure 8. Keywords analysis 
Source.  Wordle (2023).  
 
The highest impact publications come from Europe, the United St ates and China, following a global trend of 
qualified knowledge concentration; as seen in Figure 9. 
 
Figure 9. Percentage of publication by countries 
 
The main universities and research institutes that publish rele vant research on the topic are mostly concentrated 
in the United Kingdom, China and Germany. Figure 10 represents the total number of studies published by the 
10 main technology centr es in those countries. 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
8 
  
Figure 10. Studies published in the ten main research centres 
 
The top ten qualified journals observed in this literature revi e w  a r e  s h o w n  i n  F i g u r e  1 1 .  T h e s e  j o u r n a l s  a r e  
presented according to the number of citations presented in the  study, as well as their respective Journal Citation 
Report (JCR): qualifying metric for high-impact scientific prod uctions. 
 
Figure 11. Top journals, citations and JCR 
 
The main quantitative methods observed for wind turbine mainten ance optimization are show n in Figure 12. It is 
possible to observe the design of the four main groups of quant itative techniques that will be explored in the 
current research: neural network s, fuzzy sets, simulation and s cheduling models. 
 
Figure 12. Main quantitative techniques observed 
 
These methods are the subject of the current content analysis d iscussion. The main advantages and disadvantages 
of the systematic group will be presented alongside their use l imitations; furthermore, it will be presented the 
gaps found in the scientific discussion. 
3.3 Content Analysis  
The maintenance of offshore wind turbines is a critical area of  research to ensure the reliability and performance 
of these systems. Efficient preventive maintenance strategies, based on continuous monitoring data, can 
minimise downtime and maximise energy production (Zhang et.al, 2018). Predictive maintenance plays a key 
role in the efficient management of offshore wind turbine maint enance. The use of advanced sensors and data 
analysis techniques, such as mach ine learning, allows early det ection of failures and proper scheduling of 
maintenance activities, reducing costs and improving operationa l availability (Li et.al, 2019). 
The maintenance of offshore wind turbines presents unique chall enges due to the harsh environment in which 
these systems operate. Corrosion, vibrations and adverse weathe r conditions can significantly impair the service 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
9 
 life of components. It is essentia l to develop maintenance stra tegies based on risk analysis and consideration of 
life cycle costs to ensure the re liable operation of such equip ment (Schröder et al., 2019). 
The use of remote access technolo gies and robotics has shown to  be promising for the performance of 
maintenance tasks on offshore wind turbines. Autonomous inspect ion and repair systems can reduce the need for 
human intervention in hazardous and difficult-to-access environ ments, improving safety and reducing 
maintenance costs (A rtigao et.al, 2021). 
Optimising maintenance logistics is key to reducing operating c osts in offshore wind farms. Efficient scheduling 
of maintenance activities, spare parts inventory management and  careful planning of human resources are crucial 
aspects for successful maintenan ce of offshore wind turbines (D ing et.al, 2018). 
Based on the specialised literature, some works propose useful models for predicting failures and optimising 
maintenance planning for offshore wind turbines. For instance, Hou et.al (2019) proposes an optimization model 
based on genetic algorithms to determine the best maintenance s chedule for offshore wind turbines, considering 
multiple objectives, such as minimising maintenance costs and m aximising the availability of wind. 
More recently, Jagtap et.al (2020 ) presents an optimization mod el based on a particle swarm optimization 
algorithm to determine the optim al maintenance plan for offshor e wind farms. Their study considers factors such 
as maintenance costs, component reliability and operational con straints. 
Furthermore, Li et.al (2017) propose the application of Markov decision processes to optimise the preventive 
maintenance of offshore wind turbines. The model takes into acc ount the age of the equipment, maintenance 
costs and operational performance. 
Finally, Lin et.al (2018) present s a comprehensive framework to  optimise the operation and maintenance of 
offshore wind farms, incorporating multi-objective optimization  techniques to maximise the availability of wind 
turbines, and minimise  maintenance costs wh ilst considering the  conditions of the marine environment. 
3.4 Framework  
To schematise the diversity of quantitative methods used to opt imise the planning of maintenance operations for 
offshore wind turbines involves the understanding of the peculi arities common to these methods, their 
similarities and their objectives, which makes any attempt to r epresent them in a simple diagram rather 
challenging. However, the theoretical framework and their respe ctive methods are shown in Figure 13. 
 
Figure 13. Theoretical framework  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
10 
 The systematic group ‘Artificial Intelligence’ aims to highligh t situations that guide the investigation of 
components failure mainly from the monitoring of vibration and temperature data of the wind turbines, 
signalling the need for preventive, predictive and corrective m aintenance. The defects monitored through these 
models are predicted by ISO series regulations and contribute t o energy production planning, since they indicate 
the most opportune moment to car ry out repairs when integrated with key performance indicators of energy 
production losses by maintenance needs (Jiang, 2021; Mills et.a l, 2018). 
S o f t w a r e  s u c h  a s  S C A D A  a n d  s e n s o r s  a r r a n g e d  o n  w i n d  t o w e r s  a r e  useful for handling vibration data from 
critical components such as nace lles and blades. The significan t volume of data requires Big Data storage and 
the application of database tech niques. Furthermore, statistica l treatments in an unsupervised learning 
environment to convert vibration data into digital signals are useful for data analysis and management 
evaluations. Thus, SOM networks (Self Organizing Maps*) with re gions indicating which type of fault may 
occur when the data shows a given trend are useful representati ons for decision guidance (Blanco-M et.al, 2018; 
Lin; Liu, 2020). 
These techniques do require significant computational support, as they present an investigation of the decision 
maker's preferences, observing in which situations the decision  maker feels comfortable to deliberate in a 
controlled condition of risk and uncertainty. Albeit essentiall y theoretical, models based on fuzzy logic can 
contribute to this purpose for maintenance planning, as they mo del the results observed from sensors and are 
able to delineate a probable range of decision acceptance that is intelligible (Khan et.al , 2022; Aryanfar et.al, 
2022). 
The presence of subjectivity in th e decision-making process imp lies the emergence of techniques that seek to 
highlight biases and observe patterns that may be useful for th e decision makers. For mai ntenance planning, such 
techniques may guide the structuring of strategies that trace t he directions that should be adopted depending on 
the type of maintenance and the parameters investigated (Arzagh I et.al, 2017; Pinci roli et.al, 2023).  
In operational research, so long as it is intended to observe t he behaviour of specific variables, scenarios are 
opportune to model the decision through techniques such as Simu lation. It proposes to investigate situations in 
which the arrival of entities in a system presents known contin uous or discrete probability distributions based on 
hypothesis tests such as the χଶ and the Kolmogorov-Smirnov, for instance, in which the fit of the distribution 
for the data series is observed. Because it is safe and practic al, its usability stands out and is relevant for 
reliability estimates of the asse ts in the present study (Law, 2007). 
Although theoretically different from Scheduling problems, whic h seek to allocate restricted resources into 
carrying out work taking into account significant levels of eff iciency; simulation can, along with these problems, 
have benefits in terms of the quality of the solutions presente d, for instance, in industrial operations modelling, it 
can display the effects that a reprogramming or maintenance of machines has for the reduction of the total time 
of the routine operations (the makespan), which is applicable t o the planning of energy production (Mohan et.al, 
2019; Carreno et.al,  2019; Ahmadian et.al,  2021).  
Other studies have presented the problem of Multicriteria Sched uling: a technique that aims to drive the decision 
maker into choosing the technical factors that should be the ob ject of scrutiny by him or the group of decision 
makers, and from mathematical programming and data from reliabl e measurement system s to investigate the 
feasibility of solutions , proposing, if necessary, relaxations.  The construction of scenarios together with the idea 
of sequencing operations and contributing to the optimization o f systems taking into account the subjectivity of 
the decision maker seems to be th e main advantage of this techn ique, which has not found significant growth in 
discussion in recent years alth ough it is robust and structured  (T’kindt & Billaut, 2003; Hoogeven, 2005; Lara et 
al., 2021).  
The techniques presented in Figure 13 are detailed in terms of their advantages and disadvantages in Tables 1 
and 2. The authors sought to detail the understanding of these models and problems, suggesting, when necessary, 
situations applicable to them. 
  
 
  
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
11 
 Table 1. Advantages and disadvantages of AI techniques for opti mising maintenance of offshore wind turbines 
Methods - References Advantages Disadvantages 
Artificial neural network (ANN ) - 
Bangalore & Tjernberg (2013); Adouni et.al (2016); Bangalore 
et.al (2017); Gantasala, Lunend & 
Aidanpää (2017); Hossain et.al (2017); Ali et.al (2018). I) Adaptive Learning: ANNs  can learn to perform 
tasks through a training process. II) 
Self-organization: ANNs can create their own structure to represent information. III) Fault 
tolerance: The ANN can still operate when its 
structure is damaged (degradation tolerance), and distorted or incomplete when the data is noisy 
(data tolerance). IV) Online operation: It is 
implemented alongside other systems, working seamlessly, as It is specia lly programmed to carry 
out online processes. V) Practical 
implementation: There are  specialized chips that 
can facilitate the integration of ANNs into 
different systems. I) ANNs need considerable size samples to 
generate information, making a significant 
number of observations necessary, which may be inconvenient. II) Another 
disadvantage is that the optimization of the 
hidden layer of the ANN is time consuming, adding further complications 
into the computational process. 
Deep learning (DL) -  LeCun, 
Begio and Hinton (2015); V oulodimos et.al (2017); 
Bach-andersen, Rømer-odgaard & 
Winther (2018); Chen et.al (2019). I) Learning distributed representations allows 
generalization to new combinations of learned 
resource values further to those observed during 
training; II) another signi ficant advantage would 
be the composition of repre sentation layers in a 
deep network I )  I t  c a n  b e c o m e  i n e f f e c t i v e  i f  t h e r e  a r e  
errors in the first layers, such errors can 
cause the network to learn to reconstruct the 
average of the training data. II) It requires a very large amount of data to obtain superior 
performance over other techniques. 
Fuzzy logic (FL)**  -  R e z a m a n d  
et.al (2021); Zhong et.al (2019); 
Nguyen et.al (2022); Amina et.al 
(2016); Azadegan et.al (2011); Bernardes et.al (2019); Choi & 
Kim (2017); Pezeshk & Mazinani 
(2019). I) A simple and intelligent process. II) Easy to 
understand and implement. III) Allows for a more user-friendly and ef ficient implementation I) The development of a fuzzy system 
model is rather challenging. II) Difficult to find suitable membership values for fuzzy 
systems. III) A fuzzy system cannot be 
applied to solve a problem that is not available in the form of if-then rules. 
Extreme learning machine (ELM) -  
Bakri et.al (2019); Wang et.al 
(2021). I) Showed greater accuracy and lower training 
cost than any other neural network structure, 
including Random Neural Network. II) it is 
possible to develop new neural network structures using extreme machine learning I) Albeit extreme machine learning´s hidden 
layer input weights and threshold values are 
randomly generated; inappropriate parameters will lead to unsatisfactory 
regression results. II) When the sample 
imbalance is relatively large or training samples are relatively small, extreme 
machine learning generalization 
performance is not optimal. 
Model-based reasoning (MBR) in 
AI -  Echavarria et.al (2008); 
Khandelwal & Sharma (2013). I) The ability to use functional/structural domain 
knowledge in problem solving, enhancing the 
DM´s ability to deal with a variety of problems, including those that the system designers have 
not anticipated. II) model-based decision makers 
tend to be very robust, complete and flexible problem solvers. III) Some knowledge is 
transferable between tasks, for model-based 
decision-makers are often developed using scientific and theoretical methods, since science 
strives for  
general application theories, this generality often extends to decision makers-based models. IV) 
Often, model-based decisi on makers can provide 
explanations; these can convey a deeper understanding of the failure to human users. I) Lack of experiential (descriptive) 
knowledge of the domain - the heuristic methods used by rule-based approaches 
reflect a valuable class of expertise. II) 
Model-based reasoning usually operates at a level of detail that leads to high 
complexity; this is one of the main reasons 
experts developed heuristics in the first place. III) Unusual circumstances, for 
instance, bridge failures or the interaction 
of various failures in electronic components can change the functionality of a system in 
ways that are difficult to predict using an a 
priori model. 
Model predictive controller (MPC) 
- Huang et.al (2017); Kazda et.al 
(2018); Schwenzer et.al (2021). I) Strong modelling, learning and forecasting 
capabilities. II) the MPC determines the control 
law automatically through a model-based optimization. I) If the drive cycle undergoes dramatic 
changes, the forecast will become unreliable; II) the disadvantage of MPC lies 
in the complexity of its algorithm, which 
requires more time than other controllers. 
Digital Twin -  Adamenko et.al 
(2020); Lopéz et.al (2022); Menon I) Significant increase in transparency: the 
various models, which have  updated information, I) Difficulty in predicting the exact cost of 
the product in the initial phase of the life 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
12 
 et.al (2023) 
 facilitate the supervision of the product or 
system. The information is displayed in such a 
way that the user can see the current status 
directly and clearly. II) The digital twin reduces the time needed to take a product to market: 
simulations can be used in advance of how the 
product or system will behave before it is even completed, mitigating its weaknesses and 
improving its strengths. 
 cycle due to less data availability; II) It 
requires efficient mach ine learning and data 
analysis algorithms to manage and interpret 
the enormous amounts of data produced by digital twins. 
 
 
The models based on artificial intelligence emphasise the inves tigation and analysis of vibrations caused by the 
weathering actions to which offshore wind turbines are subjecte d (mainly winds and tides). These data are 
captured, mostly, by sensors installed in these towers and eval uated by specialists who present these numbers 
through data visualisation tools in order to guide and support the decision to carry out maintenance, preventive 
and predictive. formulation of performance indicators related t o interference (stops caused by failures or 
reduction of energy generation capacity that impacts production  targets) and its implications for the economic 
viability of the wind farm. 
 
Table 2. Advantages and disadvantages of decision analysis for maintenance optimization of offshore wind 
turbines 
Problem -Methods - References Advantages Disadvantages 
Simulation -Monte Carlo Simulation 
-Loizou & French (2012); Barthelemy 
(2019); Koukoura et.al (2021); Welte (2017); Faulstich et.al  (2016); Scheu et.al (2017); Lei & Sandborn (2018); Pérez (2022). I) Allows greater scope, clarity, rigor and 
understanding to the de veloper, leading to 
more consistent and rational decisions. II) By dehumanizing, to a certain extent, the decision-making process, it permits risk rationalization, increases consistency and exposes the multiplicity and extent of the risks involved. III) Pr ovides insight not only 
into potential changes to the project to increase its profitability, but more importantly, it allows the  sources of risk to be 
classified. I) It is necessary to know probability 
distributions for each choice outcome. II) historical information is not always reliable or appropriate. III) subjective estimates. IV) continuous distribution of inputs gives rise to an infinite number of results which is unrealistic. V) it is easier to predict the capital cost item than the effective demand, therefore, more appropriate to cost-benefit issues rather than proj ect profitability (NPV); 
VI) there is a correlation between the variables (economic, organizational, technical) so that when the independent variables are aggregated for risk assessment purposes, the effect of varying one may be offset by varying the other in an opposite direction. VII) the result of continuous probability can render the data inadequate, hiding causal relationships. VIII) It may direct attention to radical policies and design alternatives. IX) Demands more staff time for data collection and analysis. 
Simulation -Markov Chains  - P o s s a n  &  
Andrade (2014); Dawid et.al (2016); Boumi & Vela (2020). I) In some cases, the use of this technique can 
be advantageous to explain the variability in the main parameters that have a significant influence on the degradation process (depreciation); II) The Markov Chain is a special case of a stochastic process chain with discrete parameters whose development can be carried out through a series of transitions between the scenarios of a system. I) Significant computational costs associated 
with calculating the State Transition Matrix are widely reported. II) The accuracy of estimates using Markov chains is quite sensitive to data availability, making it unreliable in contexts small data sample sizes, 
Simulation -Hidden Markov Model  - L a u  
et.al (2012); Ramaki, Razoolzadegan & Jafari (2017); Zhao (2022). I) By modelling several processes 
simultaneously, it allows the estimation of population-level effects, as well as more I) It is reported that the application of the 
Hidden Markov Model implies infinite scenarios which makes the data integration 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
13 
 efficient estimates of parameters that are 
common to all processes. II) These models are relatively easy to interpret. III) Allows greater flexibility in the modelling correlation structure because they relax the assumption that observations are independent given hidden scenarios processes involved in the modelling very 
challenging. II) Complexity and high time consumption for training this model is also reported. 
Scheduling -Heuristic Multi-Objective Multicriteria Decision Making (HMM)***  
-Hajibandeh et.al  (2018); Gutjahr & Pichler (2016). I) This model, when integrated with different 
components of electrical systems involved in the production of wind energy, leads to the understanding of scenarios that demand balance in the load profile. I) The decision maker is forced to define the 
particular form of aggregation. II) this stochastic method takes into account the dependence between the stochastic objectives, but it has the obvious disadvantage that the aggregation function u, which should represent the decision maker's utility function to make the optimization model meaningful, must be known before computational analysis can be initiated. 
Scheduling -Preventive Maintenance Scheduling Problem with Interval Costs (PMSPIC)****  - B a n g a l o r e  &  P a t r i k s s o n  
(2018); Yu et.al  (2021); Figueredo et.al (2020). I) Case studies demonstrat ed that the model is 
capable of providing optimal hybrid maintenance plans, which consider both condition and failure rates based on component age. I) The approach performs poorly when the 
level of unmodeled randomness is significant. 
Scheduling -Mixed-Integer Second-Order 
Cone Programming (MISOPC)***** -Benson & Sağlam (2013); Ge et.al 
(2020). I) Several of the examples of this model arise 
as reformulations or even relaxations of mixed-integer nonlinear programming problems (MINLPs), because MISOCPs can sometimes have advantages over MINLPs. I) Convex MINLP solvers are not applicable 
for MISOPC, if they use linear gradient-based external approximations, since the second order cone constraints are not continuously differentiable. 
Scheduling -Travelling salesman 
problem/Travelling Repairman Problem (TSP/TRP) *******  - Fischetti et.al 
(1993); Feng et.al (2021); Ouaarab et.al (2013). I) The travelling salesman problem belongs 
to an important class of scheduling problems; it is easily stated and is one of the most studied problems in the literature due to its applicability to a large number of real cases. II) Minimizes the average time of departures considering the location of multiple customers I) Heuristic methods (such as TSP) present 
difficulties in solving problems involving 
multiple nodes (cities, for  instance). II) There 
is no efficient algorithm for the TSP and all its variants or relevant problems of the same class. The need to quickly find good (not necessarily optimal) solutions to these problems led to the development of various approximation algorithms, such as metaheuristics. 
Scheduling -Routing and Scheduling 
Problem of a Maintenance Fleet for Offshore Wind Farms (RSPMFOWF)******  -Dai et.al (2014). I) Its objective, essentially, is to achieve the 
cheapest maintenance operation in the defined period, which i nvolves service vessel 
costs and lost production. I) It is useful for a limited period, for 
instance, one or several weeks in summer, when maintenance tasks can be carried out continuously. II) It doe s not take into account 
the cost of technicians on service vessels. 
Stochastic optimization  
(Metaheuristics) -Genetic algorithm -Cabrera, Simon & Prado (2002); Zhou 
et.al  (2020). I) Good convergence. II) Easy and 
multi-objective optimiza tion. III) Define an 
initial population improved by objective function approximations, making use of natural selection mechanisms and the laws of natural genetics. IV) Low computational cost.I) It is not easy to fall into the optimum 
location. II) Low practicality. III) Limited to simulation 
Stochastic optimization  
(Metaheuristics) -Ant colony algorithm -Liu et.al (2014); Zuo et.al  (2015); Ren 
et.al  (2020);  Kefayat et.al  (2015); Meng et.al (2012). I) The algorithm is characterized by a high 
rate of convergence when preceded by the generation of "pheromones" through other techniques such as the Genetic Algorithm. II) All traces of pheromones are eventually reduced by an evaporation rate, which avoids stalling at a local minimum. III) Solves the multi-objective optimizations scheduling I) Slow convergence, which requires 
strategies for the generation of pheromones. II) Precocity. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
14 
 problem. 
Stochastic optimization  
(Metaheuristics) -Bat algorithm - Wu & 
Lin (2019); Fister et.al (2014) I) Uses simple concepts and structures. II) 
Presents good exploration skills. III) Possibility to be applied as a global optimizer as well as a local optimizer. IV) Deals with multimodal problems efficiently; having a very fast rate of convergence due to the ability to focus on a region of promising solutions I) Needs an improved control strategy to 
switch between refinement and variation at the right time. II) Requires techniques that accelerate the convergence so that an adequate performance can be observed. 
Stochastic optimization  
(Metaheuristics) -Adaptive large neighborhood search (ALNS) - Lazakis & 
Khan (2021); Sacramento et.al (2019); Bach et.al (2019); Kuhn et.al (2020). I) Optimizes vessel routes for the distribution 
of technicians amongst different wind farms in various periods. II) Neighborhoods are defined by destruction and repair operators, the former removes multiple requests from the current solution, whilst the latter reinserts removed requests to arrange a new solution. A diverse set of destroy and repair operators is important to ALNS performance. I) A strong local search can block the ALNS 
acceptance mechanism to overcome local optima. II) Presents limitations in terms of coordination between order picking and routing decisions, which can be difficult to manage when planning of fshore wind turbine 
maintenance operations. 
Stochastic optimization  
(Metaheuristics) -Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm II (NSGA - II)  -Konak 
et.al (2006); Zhong et.al  (2018). I) Single parameter (N). II) It has been 
exhaustively tested. III) Efficient I) The agglomeration distance works only in 
objective space. 
Mixed Linear Integer Programming/Mixed 
Integer Programming( MLIP/MIP) -Branch-and-check (B&C)  -Thorsteinsson 
(2001); Froger (2017);  I) B&C shows a clear benefit, especially with 
a larger number of features. II) Cuts can be calculated by solving a continuous linear model. III) It can rule out more solutions for RMPs (restricted master problem) contributing to model accuracy. I) For situations in which the subproblem 
arising from the master problem is difficult, B&C can result in significantly longer execution times. 
Mixed Linear Integer Programming/Mixed 
Integer Programming( MLIP/MIP ) -Vehicle routing problem (VRP)  
-Goetschalckx & Jacob-Blecha (1989); Applegate et.al  (2002); Liu et.al  (2019); Bao et.al  (2021). I) The importance of the vehicle routing 
problem and all its variations and extensions are based on the significant cost of physical distribution. II) Indicates optimized routes that involve sets of customers that need to be served by vehicles located in a common depot. III) Assuming that travel time is proportional to distance travelled, and that an insignificant amount of time is spent at the customer's location, the above objective is achieved by minimizing the length of the longest route, starting from the common depot, taken by a vehicle , contrasting with the 
typical objective centered on minimizing the total distance travelled by the fleet. I) Studies show computational cost 
disadvantages in large-scale or complex problems optimized from VRP due to combinatorial explosion. II) Heuristic methods (such as the VRP) present difficulty in solving problems involving multiple constraints. 
Mixed Nonlinear Integer Programming 
(MILNP) -Redundancy optimization problem (ROP) - Nourelfath & Dutuit 
(2004); Kim & Yun  (1993); Shafiee et.al  (2011). I) The design objective is achieved by 
choices made from elements available on the market. II) For a problem with monotonically non-decreasing constraints (which is generally true for the redundancy optimization problem), the Kohda and Inoue algorithm performs a series of selection and exchange operations within the region (i.e., a selected solution by a certain criterion is examined by subtracting a redundancy from one subsystem and adding a redundancy to another to see if this trade-off produces an improved viable solution) I) Studies that apply it assume unlimited 
repair resources to solve it. II) The redundancy optimization problem is usually 
formulated as a nonlinear integer problem that is difficult to solve due to the considerable amount of computational effort required to find an exact optimal solution. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
15 
  
The current analysis of the quantitative techniques leads to th e belief that some methods still lack a detailed 
conceptual development so that t hey can be consolidated as appl icable and useful models. The case of 
Scheduling techniques shows that heuristic models, although eas y to implement, constitute suboptimal modelling, 
indicating the most likely path to reach an interesting solutio n to the problem, albeit neither a definitive nor a 
best set of solutions. 
Some techniques, albeit relevant for theoretical research, are not characterised as pertaining to the systematic 
groups considered in the current theoretical review, this is du e to several factors, such as: i) a qualitative 
approach; ii) investigation focused on cyclicality in energy ge neration as well as its effects on the predictability 
of energy losses; iii) mapping of the main stakeholders; iv) de velopment of surveys that seek to map the various 
decisions necessary for the ela boration of maintenance strategi es; and v) associations with some complementary 
technique (Devriendt et.al, 2014; Shafiee, 2014;Optehostert et al., 2017; Ahsan & Pedersen, 2018; Dao et.al, 
2021; Rezamand et al., 2021). 
Thereby, it is relevant to elucidate some concepts that are use ful in the real situations of maintenance planning 
and the integration of the groups of methods considered so far:  i) The concept of base condition for maintenance 
takes into account the real situation of an asset in order to d ecide which maintenance should be done, presenting 
indicators catalogued continuously; ii) Condition-based monitor ing in maintenance is focused on preventing 
asset failures, downtime and unnecessary practices, monitoring the health of assets to determine what 
maintenance needs to b e completed and when (Scarf, 2007; Sriniv asan & Parlikad, 2013; A li & Abdelhadi, 2022); 
and iii) Maintenance health diagnostics which are used to readi ly identify the health status of the equipment, 
besides distinguishing and determining fault locations and the requirements for effective maintenance of a given 
device.  
It presents the application of Artificial Intelligence to situa tions involving preventive maintenance and health 
diagnosis based on qualitative information (e.g., service repor ts) and quantitative (e. g., vibrations and sensor 
data). They attest to the need f or inspection and issuance of w ork orders, as well as manag erial decisions to carry 
out the repairs, in a situation in which it is minimally requir ed to understand and predict the weather conditions 
in loco as well as predictability of the wind turbine power. Th us, it is possible to determine material and human 
resources that should be commi tted to this maintenance. 
4. Conclusions 
The current work describes the main quantitative techniques, th eir advantages, disadvantages and overall 
application within offshore wind energy production. However, so me questions remain open due to the extensive 
theoretical material available ab out the theme, showing potenti al for future research on many areas; for instance, 
the dimensioning of the variables involved in the base conditio n problems and maintenance monitoring of 
offshore wind turbines. 
Another key point for future investigations is related to the s cope of the study focused on the offshore scenario; 
some of the considerations presented are also applicable on the  onshore reality, as long as they are duly 
substantiated. Countries such as Brazil (in which the research was based), for instance, have extensive areas that 
can be used for onshore wind energy generation and, therefore, there is a substantial demand for theoretical 
discussion to support the decision-making process of this emerg ing renewable energy industry. 
As for quantitative techniques, the study revealed that it is n ecessary to integrate methods to overcome their 
advantages and disadvantages in a real context. Some of these m odels are studied separately and their advantages 
and disadvantages are not properly explored, at least in theory , which limits further understanding. 
During the current research, it was identified that studies on maintenance optimization of offshore wind turbines, 
regardless of the techniques addressed, consider the reliabilit y curve to predict possibilities of failure in the 
maintenance function. From the mathematical and conceptual poin t of view of maintenance management, this 
technical direction is acceptable ; although, from the point of view of comfort in the decision, there are potential 
limitations. The decision maker  m ay not unde rstand t he real m ea ning of reliability (categorised by very clear 
indicators such as MTBR, MTTF and other interferences). In this  sense, it is suggested that future works may 
consider the risk function as a frontier (and not reliability) for decision-making regarding the maintenance of 
offshore assets, particularly wind farms and their wind turbine s; Given that it is understood that the risk function 
(odds) better translates the sub jectivity of the decision-maker  and allows for a decision-making process that is 
more sensitive to losses due to unscheduled stops, penalties ar ising from the need to man crews for maintenance 
at sea, and, consequently, the cos ts arising from these maritim e operations. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
16 
 As for the research limitations, it is necessary to point out, firstly, the possibility of the likelihood of bias in the 
review, given the subjective asp ects of the analysis, even afte r the consultation of the extensive theoretical 
framework presented. Secondly, the systematisation of the model s presented was also complex due to the 
peculiarities of each algorithm under discussion, which require d a specific theoretical study to detail their 
particularities, which constitute s a recommendation by the auth ors so that future applications of these techniques 
are carefully carried out under t he supervision of data scienti sts and specialists in computational mathematics. 
Acknowledgments: Our acknowledgment to: Coordenaçã o de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoa l de Nível Superior 
(CAPES). 
Ethics approval The Publication Ethics Committee of the Canadian Center of Scie nce and Education.  
The journal and publisher adhere to the Core Practices establis hed by the Committee on Publication Ethics 
(COPE). 
Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally double-blind peer reviewed. 
Data availability statement 
The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author. The data 
are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical restrictio ns. 
Data sharing statement 
No additional data are available. 
Open access 
This is an open-access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution 
license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 
Copyrights 
Copyright for this article is re tained by the author(s), with f irst publication rights granted to the journal. 
References Adamenko, D., Kunnen, S., Pluhnau, R., Loibl, A., & Nagarajah, A. (2020). Review and comparison of the 
methods of designing the Digital Twin.  Procedia CIRP , 91 (March), 27-32. Elsevier B.V . 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2020.02.146 
Adouni, A. et al. (2016). FDI based on artificial neural networ k for low-voltage-ride-through in DFIG-based 
wind turbine. ISA Transactions, 64 , 353-364. 
Ahmadian, A., Rasoolzadegan, A., & Javan, J. (2018). A systemat ic review on intrusion detection based on the 
Hidden Markov Model. Statistical Analysis and Data Mining.  
Ahsan, D., & Pedersen, S. (2018). The influence of stakeholder groups in operation and maintenance services of 
offshore wind farms: Lesson from Denmark. Renewable Energy, 125 (November), 819-828. 
Akbari, N., Irawan, C. A., Jones, D. F., & Menachof, D. (2017).  A multi-criteria port suitability assessment for 
developments in the offshore wind industry. Renewable Energy, 102 , 118-133. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2016.10.035. 
Aladag, C. H., Erioglu, E., & Yo lcu, U. (2010). Forecast combin ation by using artificial neural networks. Neural 
Processing Letters, 32 (3), 269-276. 
Alberto Ruiz Marta Susana Basualdo Autor, C., & Jorge Matich, D . (n.d.). Cátedra: Informática Aplicada a la 
Ingeniería de Procesos-Orientación I Redes Neuronales: Concepto s Básicos y Aplicaciones. 
Ali, A., & Abdelhadi, A. (2022). Condition-Based Monitoring and  Maintenance: State of the Art Review. Applied 
Sciences (Switzerland), 12 (2). 
Ali, J. B., et.al (2018). Online automatic diagnosis of wind tu rbine bearings progressive degradations under real 
experimental conditions based on unsupervised machine learning.  Applied Acoustics, 132 , 167-181. 
A l t m a n ,  R .  M .  K .  ( 2 0 0 7 ) .  M i x e d  H i d d e n  M a r k o v  m o d e l s :  A n  e x t e n s i on of the Hidden Markov model to the 
longitudinal data setting. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 102 (477), 201-210. 
Amina, B., Tayeb, A., & Mouloud, D. (2016). Intelligent open sw itch fault detection for power converter in wind 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
17 
 energy system. Applied Artificial Intelligence, 30 (9), 886-898. 
Antoniadou, I., et.al (2015). Aspects of structural health and condition monitoring of offshore wind turbines. 
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: Mathematical . Physical and Engineering Sciences, 
373(2035). 
Applegate, D., Cook, W., Dash, S., & Rohe, A. (2002). Solution of a Min-Max Vehicle Routing Problem. 
INFORMS Journal on Computing, 14 (2), 132-143. 
Arenales, M., Armenetano, V ., Morabito, R., & Yanasse, H. (2007 ). Pesquisa Operacional (1st ed.). Ed. Campus 
Ltda. 
Artigao, E. (2021). Fault evolution monitoring of an in-service  wind turbine DFIG using windowed scalogram 
difference. IEEE Access, 9 , 90118-90125. 
Aryanfar, A., Gholami, A., Ghorbannezhad, P., et.al (2022). Mul ti-criteria prioritization of the renewable power 
p l a n t s  i n  A u s t r a l i a  u s i n g  t h e  f u z z y  l o g i c  i n  d e c i s i o n - m a k i n g  m e thod (FMCDM).  Clean Energy, 6 (1), 
780-798. 
A r z a g h i ,  E . ,  A b a e i ,  M .  M . ,  A b b a ssi, R., et.al (2017). Risk-base d maintenance planning of subsea pipelines 
through fatigue crack growth monitoring. Engineering Failure Analysis, 79 , 928-939. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.engfailanal.2017.06.003 
Astolfi, D. (2015). Data mining  techniques for performance anal ysis of onshore wind farms. Applied Energy, 148 , 
220-233. 
Auestad, Ø. F. (2015). Boarding control system - For improved a ccessibility to offshore wind turbines. 
IF AC-PapersOnLine, 28 (16), 229-234. 
Azadegan, A. (2011). Fuzzy logic in manufacturing: A review of literature and a specialised application. 
International Journal of Production Economics, 132 (2), 258-270. 
Baagøe-Engels, V ., & Stentoft, J. (2016). Operations and mainte nance issues in the offshore wind energy sector. 
International Journal of Energy Sector Management, 10 (2). 
Bach, L., Hasle, G., & Schulz, C. (2019). Adaptive Large Neighb orhood Search on the Graphics Processing Unit. 
European Journal of Operational Research, 275 (1), 53-66. 
Bach-Andersen, M., Rømer-Odgaard, B., & Winther, O. (2018). Dee p learning for automated drivetrain fault 
detection. Wind Energy, 21 (1), 29-41. 
Bakri, A. E., Koumir, M., & Boumhidi, I. (2019). Extreme learni ng machine-based non-linear observer for fault 
detection and isolation of wind turbine. Australian Journal of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, 16 , 
12-20. 
Bangalore, P. (2017). An artificial neural network-based condit ion monitoring method for wind turbines, with 
application to the monitoring of the gearbox. Wind Energy, 20 (8), 1421-1438. 
Bangalore, P., & Patriksson, M. (2018). Analysis of SCADA data for early fault detection, with application to the 
maintenance management of wind turbines. Renewable Energy, 115 , 521-532. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2017.08.073 
Bangalore, P., & Tjernberg, L. B. (2013). An approach for self- evolving neural network-based algorithm for fault 
prognosis in wind turbine. 2013 IEEE Grenoble Conference PowerT ech, POWERTECH 2013. 
Bao, S., Tawada, M., Tanaka, S., & Togawa, N. (2021). An Approa ch to the Vehicle Routing Problem with 
Balanced Pick-up Using Ising Machines. 2021 International Sympo sium on VLSI Design, Automation and 
Test, VLSI-DAT 2021 - Proceedings. 
Barthelemy, L. (2019). Calculation of the unavailability’s of a n offshore wind turbine farm. In OCEANS 2019 - 
Marseille, OCEANS Marseille  2019 (p. 2019). Marseille. 
Beck, J. C. (n.d.). Checking- up on Branch-and-Check. 
Belli, M. R., Conti, M., Crippa, P., & Turchetti, C. (1999). Ar tificial neural networks as approximates of 
stochastic processes. Neural Networks, 12 (4-5), 647-658. 
Benson, H. Y ., & Sağlam, Ü. (2013). Mixed-Integer Second-Order Cone Programming: A Survey. Theory Driven 
by Influential Applications. INFORMS , 13-36. 
Bernardes, F. (2018). Winds of Change: How Up-To-Date Forecasti ng Methods Could Help Change Brazilian 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
18 
 Wind Energy Policy and Save Billions of US$. Energies, 11 (11), 2952. 
Blanco, M. A., Gibert, K., Marti- Puig, P., Cusidó, J., & Solé-C asals, J. (2018). Identifying health status of wind 
turbines by using self-organizing maps and interpretation-orien ted post-processing tools. Energies, 11 (4). 
Boccard, N. (2009). Capacity factor  of wind power realized valu es vs. estimates. Energy Policy, 37 (7), 
2679-2688. 
Bot, Y ., & Azoulay, D. (2015). Asset maintenance simulation: Th e case-study of an offshore wind farm. 
Proceedings - Annual Reliability  and Maintainability Symposium,  2015- May, 1-6. 
Boumi, S., & Vela, A. E. (2020). Improving graduation rate esti mates using regularly updating multi-level 
absorbing Markov chains. Education Sciences, 10 (12), 1-18.  
Bouzekri, A., et.al (2017). Artificial intelligence-based fault  tolerant control strategy in wind turbine systems. 
International Journal of Renewable Energy Research, 7 (2), 652-659. 
Bunge, M. (2003). Emergence and convergence: Qualitative novelty and the unity of knowledge.  University of 
Toronto Press. 
C a b r e r a ,  J .  A . ,  S i m o n ,  A . ,  &  P r a d o ,  M .  ( 2 0 0 2 ) .  O p t i m a l  s y n t h e s i s of mechanisms with genetic algorithms. 
Mechanism and Machine Theory, 37 (10), 1165-1177. 
Camci, F. (2014). The travelling maintainer problem: Integratio n of condition-based maintenance with the 
travelling salesman problem. Journal of the Operational Research Society, 65 (9), 1423-1436. Palgrave 
Macmillan Ltd. 
Carreno, Y ., Petrick, R. P. A., & Petillot, Y . (2019). Multi-ag ent strategy for marine applications via temporal 
planning. Proceedings - IEEE 2nd International Conference on Ar tificial Intelligence and Knowledge 
Engineering, AIKE 2019, 243-250. 
Carrol et.al (2017). Availability, operation and maintenance co sts of offshore wind turbines with different drive 
train configurations. Wind Energy, 20 (2), 361-378. 
Castro, W. (2020). Modelo multicritério de apoio a decisão para  o problema de contratação de fornecedores de 
equipamentos médicos: uma aplicação no Hospital Universitário O nofre Lopes (HUOL) (Master's thesis). 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte. 
Chan, H. C., et.al (2013). Asse ssment of yearly available days for wind turbine installation in the western sea of 
Taiwan. IEEE International Underwater Technology Symposium, 201 3. 
Chen, B., Matthews, P. C., & Tavner, P. J. (2013). Wind turbine  pitch faults prognosis using a-priori knowledge 
based ANFIS. Expert Systems with Applications, 40 , 6863-6876. 
Chen, C. T. (2000). Extensions of the TOPSIS for group decision -making under fuzzy environment. Fuzzy Sets 
and Systems, 114 (1), 1-9. 
Chen, C. T. (2001). A fuzzy appro ach to select the location of the distribution center. Fuzzy Sets and Systems, 
118(1), 65-73. 
Chen, L., et.al (2019). Learning deep representation of imbalan ced SCADA data for fault detection of wind 
turbines. Measurement, 139 , 370-379. 
Choi, S., & Kim, S. (2017). An investigation of operating behav ior characteristics of a w ind power system using 
a fuzzy clustering method. Expert Systems with Applications, 81 , 244-250. 
Costa, Á. M. (2021). New tendencies in wind energy operation an d maintenance.  Applied Sciences  (Switzerland), 
11(4), 1-26. http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/app11041515 
Dai, L., Stålhane, M., & Utne, I. (2015). Routing and schedulin g of maintenance fleet for offshore wind farms. 
Wind Engineering, 39 (1), 15-30. 
Dao, C. D. (2021). Integrated condition-based maintenance model ing and optimization for offshore wind 
turbines. Wind Energy. https://doi.org/10.1002/we.2635 
Dawid, R., McMillan, D., & Revie, M. (2017). Time series semi-m arkov decision process w ith variable costs for 
maintenance planning. Risk, Reliability and Safety: Innovating Theory and Practice - Proceedings of the 
26th European Safety and Reliability Conference, ESREL 2016, Se ptember, 183. 
DeCastro, M. et al. (2019). Europe, China and the United States : Three different approaches to the development 
of offshore wind energy.  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 109 (February), 55-70. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
19 
 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2019.04.025 
Devriendt, C. et al. (2014). Monitoring resonant frequencies an d damping values of an offshore wind turbine in 
parked conditions.  IET Renewable Power Generation, 8 (4), 433-441. 
Dinagar, D., Kamalanathan, S., & Natarajan, R. (2017). Sub inte rval average method for ranking of linear fuzzy 
numbers. International Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics, 114 (6), 119-130. 
Ding, F. et al. (2018). An integrated approach for wind turbine  gearbox fatigue life prediction considering 
instantaneously varying load conditions. Renewable Energy, 129,  260-270. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2018.05.074 
Drewes, S. (2017). Mixed integ er second order c one programming.  
Dubois, D., & Prade, H. (1980). Fuzzy Sets and Systems: Theory and Applications.  Academic Press. 
Duchin, F. (2005). A world trade model based on comparative adv antage with m regions, n goods, and k factors. 
Economic Systems Research, 17 (2), 141-162. 
Echavarria, E., et.al (2008). Fault diagnosis system for an off shore wind turbine using qualitative physics. 
European Wind Energy Conference and Exhibition 2008. 
Edesess, A. J., et.a l (2017). Improving g lobal accessibility to  offshore wind power through decreased operations 
and maintenance costs: A hydrodynamic analysis.  Energy Procedia, 138 , 1055-1060. 
Energy, W., & Special, O. (2019).  Offshore Wind Outlook 2019: W orld Energy Outlook Special Report. 
International Energy Association, 98.  
Falani, S. Y . A., González, M. O. A., Barreto, F. M., Toledo, J . C., & Torkomian, A. L. V . (2020). Trends in the 
technological development of wind energy generation. International Journal of Technology Management 
and Sustainable Development, 19 (1), 43-68. 
Faulstich, S. (2016). Modelling the failure behaviour of wind t urbines. Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 
749(1). 
Feng, J. (2019). An intelligent system for offshore wind farm m aintenance scheduling optimization considering 
turbine production loss.  Journal of Intelligent and Fuzzy Systems, 37 (5), 6911-6923. 
Feng, J. (2021). A systematic fra mework for maintenance schedul ing and routing for offshore wind farms by 
minimizing predictive production loss. E3S Web of Conferences, 233.  
Figueredo, G. P. (2020). Multi-Objective Optimization for Time- based Preventive Maintenance within the 
Transport Network: A Review. Aca demic and Library Computing, Fe bruary 2020, 1-27. Retrieved from 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/339238765 
Fischetti, M., Laporte, G., & Mart ello, S. (1993). Delivery man  problem and cumulative matroids. Operations 
Research, 41 (6), 1055-1064. 
Fister, I., Yang, X. S., Fong, S., & Zhuang, Y . (2014). Bat alg orithm: Recent advances. CINTI 2014 - 15th IEEE 
International Symposium on Computational Intelligence and Informatics, Proceedings, 163-167. 
Froger, A. (2017). A branch-and-check approach for a wind turbi ne maintenance scheduling problem. Computers 
and Operations Research, 88 , 117-136. 
Gantasala, S., Luneno, J. C., & Aidanpää, J. O. (2017). Investi gating how an artificial neural network model can 
be used to detect added mass on a non-rotating beam using its n atural frequencies: A possible application 
for wind turbine blade ice detection. Energies, 10 (2), 1-21. 
Ge, X. (2020). Optimization of maintenance scheduling for offsh ore wind turbines considering the wake effect of 
arbitrary wind direction. Electric Power Systems Research, 184 (February), 106298. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2020.106298 
Global Wind Energy Council. (2022). GWEC Global Wind Report 2022  (pp. 102-140). 
https://gwec.net/global-wind-report-2022/ 
Goetschalckx, M., & Jacobs-Blecha , C. (1989). The vehicle routi ng problem with backhauls. 
Gonçalves, P., et.al (2022). Sustainable Development Goals in H igher Education Institutions: A systematic 
literature review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 370 , 133473. 
González, M. O. A., & Toledo, J . C. (2012). A integração do cli ente no processo de desenvolvimento de produto: 
revisão bibliográfica sistemát ica e temas para pesquisa. Produção (São Paulo. Impresso), 22 , 14-26. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
20 
 Grant, M. J., & Booth, A. (2009). A typology of reviews: An ana lysis of 14 review types and associated 
methodologies. Health Information and Libraries Journal, 26 (2), 91-108. 
Guresen, E., & Kayakutlu, G. (20 11). Definition of Artificial N eural Networks with comparison to other 
networks. Procedia Computer Science, 3 , 426-433. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2010.12.071 
Gutjahr, W. J., & Pichler, A. (2016). Stochastic multi-objectiv e optimization: a survey on non-scalarizing 
methods. Annals of Operations Research, 236 (2), 475-499. 
GWEC. (2023). Global Wind Report 2023. p. 75. Retrieved from 
http://www.gwec.net/global-figures/wind-energy-global-status/ 
Hajian, A., & Styles, P. (2018). Application of Soft Computing and Intelligent Methods in Geophysics . New York: 
Springer International Publisher. 
Hajibandeh, N., et al. (2018). A heuristic multi-objective mult i-criteria demand response planning in a system 
with high penetration of wind power generators. Applied Energy, 212 (December 2017), 721-732. 
Hajibandeh, N., Shafie-Khah, M., Osório, G. J., Aghaei, J., & C atalão, J. P. S. (2018). A heuristic multi-objective 
multi-criteria demand response planning in a system with high p enetration of wind power generators. 
Applied Energy, 212 , 721-732. 
Higgins, J., & Green, S. (2011). Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions (4th ed.).  
Hoogeveen, H. (2005). Multicriteria scheduling. European Journal of Operational Research, 167 (3), 592-623. 
Hossain, M. S., Ong, Z. C., Ismail, Z., Noroozi, S., & Khoo, S.  Y . (2017). Artificial neural  networks for vibration 
based inverse parametric identifications: A review. Applied Soft Computing Journal.   
Hou, P., et al. (2019). A review of offshore wind farm layout o ptimization and electrical system design methods. 
Journal of Modern Power Systems and Clean Energy, 7 (5), 975-986. 
Hu, M., Liu, L., & Liu, M. (2020). Calculation method of state transfer matrix in Markov chain model for 
airborne contaminant transport: Investigation and improvement. Building and Environment, 185 .  
H u a n g ,  Y . ,  W a n g ,  H . ,  K h a j e p o u r ,  A . ,  H e ,  H . ,  &  J i ,  J .  ( 2 0 1 7 ) .  M o del predictive control power management 
strategies for HEVs: A review. Journal of Power Sources .  
Ilić, D., et al. (2011). Efficient coordination of wind power a nd price-responsive demand - Part II: Case studies. 
IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, 26 (4), 1885-1893. http://dx.doi.or g/10.1109/TPWRS.2011.2114651 
International Energy Agency. (2019). World Energy Outlook. 
https://iea.blob.core.windows.n et/assets/98909c1b-aabc-4797-992 6-35307b418cdb/WEO2019-free.pdf 
Jagtap, H. P., et al. (2020). Performance analysis and availabi lity optimization to improve maintenance schedule 
for the turbo-generator subsystem of a thermal power plant usin g particle swarm optimization. Reliability 
Engineering and System Safety, 204 (July), 107130. https://doi.o rg/10.1016/j.ress.2020.107130 
Jiang, Z. (2021). Installation of offshore wind turbines: A tec hnical review. Renewable and Sustainable Energy 
Reviews, 139 , 110576. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2020.110576 
Kalogirou, S. A. (2001). Artificia l neural networks in renewabl e energy systems applications: A review. 
Kang, J., Sobral, J., & Soares, C. G. (2019). Review of Conditi on-Based Maintenance Str ategies for Offshore 
Wind Energy. Journal of Marine Science and Application, 18 (1), 1-16. 
Kazda, J., et.al (2018). Mitigating Turbine Mechanical Loads Us ing Engineering Model Predictive Wind Farm 
Controller. Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 1104 (1). 
Kefayat, M., Lashkar, A. A., & Nabavi, N. S. A. (2015). A hybri d of ant colony optimization and artificial bee 
colony algorithm for probabilistic  optimal placement and sizing  of distributed energy resources. Energy 
Conversion and Management, 92 , 149-161.  
Kerlinger, F. (1986). Foundations of Behavioral Research  (3rd ed.). Holt, Rinehart, Winston. 
Khan, S. A., et al. (2022). A novel fuzzy-logic-based multi-cri teria metric for performance evaluation of spam 
email detection algorithms. App lied Sciences (Sw itzerland), 12( 14). 
Khandelwal, K., & Sharma, D. P. (2013). Hybrid Reasoning Model for Strengthening the problem-solving 
capability of Expert Systems. 
K i m ,  J .  H . ,  &  Y u m ,  B .  J .  ( 1 9 9 3 ) .  A  H e u r i s t i c  M e t h o d  f o r  S o l v i n g  Redundancy Optimization Problems in 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
21 
 Complex Systems. 
Kleinrock, L. (1975).  Queueing systems: theory. New York: John Wiley & Sons. 
Kolios, A., et al. (2020). Open O &M: Robust O&M open access too l for improving operation and maintenance 
of offshore wind turbines. Proceedings of the 29th European Safety and Reliability Conference,  E S R E L  
2019, 629-635. 
Koltsidopoulos, P. A., Thies, P. R., & Dawood, T. (2019). Offsh ore wind turbine fau lt alarm prediction. Wind 
Energy, 22 (12), 1779-1788. 
Konak, A., Coit, D. W., & Smith, A. E. (2006). Multi-objective optimization using genetic algorithms: A tutorial. 
Reliability Engineering and System Safety, 91 (9), 992-1007. 
Koukoura, S., Scheu, M. N., & Kolios, A. (2021). Influence of e xtended potential-to-functional failure intervals 
through condition monitoring systems on offshore wind turbine a vailability. Reliability Engineering and 
System Safety, 208 (September 2020), 107404. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2020.1 07404 
Kuhn, H., Schubert, D., & Holzapfel, A. (2021). Integrated orde r batching and vehicle routing operations in 
grocery retail - A General Adaptive Large Neighborhood Search a lgorithm. European Journal of 
Operational Research, 294 (3), 1003-1021. Elsevier B.V . 
Kumar, D., et al. (2013). A fu zzy logic-based d ecision support system for evaluation of suppliers in supply chain 
management practices. Mathematical and Computer Modelling, 58 (11-12), 1679-1695. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.mcm.2013.07.003 
Lara, M., Garrido, J., Ruz, M. L., & Vázquez, F. (2021). Adapti ve pitch controller of a large-scale wind turbine 
using multi-objective optimization. Applied Sciences (Switzerland), 11(6). 
Lau, B. C. P., Ma, E. W. M., & Pecht, M. (2012). Review of offs hore wind turbine failures and fault prognostic 
methods. Proceedings of IEEE 2012 Prognostics and System Health  Management Co nference, PHM. 
Law, A. (2007). Simulation modeling and analysis  (4th ed.). New Yor k: McGraw Hill. 
Lazakis, I., & Khan, S. (2021). An optimization framework for d aily route planning and scheduling of 
maintenance vessel activities in offshore wind farms.  Ocean Engineering, 225 , 108752. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oceaneng.2021.108752 
L e C u n ,  Y . ,  B e n g i o ,  Y . ,  &  H i n t o n ,  G .  ( 2 0 1 5 ) .  D e e p  l e a r n i n g .  N a t u re. Nature Publishing Group. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature14539 
Lee, D. G., Oh, S., & Son, H. I.  (2016). Mainten ance robot for 5-MW offshore wind turbines and its control. 
IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, 21 (5), 2272-2283. 
Lei, X., & Sandborn, P. A. (2018). Maintenance scheduling based  on remaining useful life predictions for wind 
farms managed using power purchase agreements. Renewable Energy, 116 , 188-198. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2017.03.053 
Li, Y ., Jia, M., Han, X., & Bai, X. S. (2021). Towards a compre hensive optimization of engine efficiency and 
emissions by coupling artificial neural network (ANN) with gene tic algorithm (GA). Energy , 225. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2021.120331 
Li, Y ., Jiang, P., She, Q., & Lin, G. (2018). Research on air p ollutant concentration prediction method based on 
self-adaptive neuro-fuzzy weighted extreme learning machine. Environmental Pollution, 241 , 1115-1127.  
Liao, M. S., Liang, G. S., & Chen, C. Y . (2013). Fuzzy grey rel ation method for multiple criteria 
decision-making problems. Quality and Quantity, 47 (6), 3065-3077. 
Lin, Z., & Liu, X. (2020). Wind power forecasting of an offshor e wind turbine based on high-frequency SCADA 
data and deep learning neural network. Energy, 201 , 117693. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2020.117693 
Liu, C. Y ., Zou, C. M., & Wu, P. (2014). A task scheduling algo rithm based on genetic algorithm and ant colony 
optimization in cloud computing . In Proceedings - 13th Internat ional Symposium on Distributed Computing 
and Applications to Business, Engineering and Science, DCABES 2 014 (pp. 68-72). Institute of Electrical 
and Electronics Engineers Inc. 
L i u ,  L . ,  e t . a l  ( 2 0 1 9 ) .  L a r g e - s c a l e Maintenance Scheduling of Wi nd Turbines. 2019 Prognostics and System 
Health Management Confer ence, PHM-Qingdao 2019. 
Liu, L., et.al (2019). Optimal scheduling strategy of O&M task for OWF. IET Renewable Power Generation, 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
22 
 13(14), 2580-2586. 
Loizou, P., & French, N. (2012). Risk and uncertainty in develo pment: A critical evaluation of using the Monte 
Carlo simulation method as a decision tool in real estate devel opment projects. Journal of Property 
Investment and Finance, 30 (2), 198-210. 
Lopez, J. R., de Jesus Camach o, J., Ponce, P., Maccleery, B., &  Molina, A. (2022). A Real-Time Digital Twin and 
Neural Net Cluster-Based Framewo rk for Faults Identification in  Power Converters of Microgrids. Self 
Organized Map Neural Network. Energies, 15 (19). 
L o z e r  d o s  R e i s ,  M .  M . ,  M i t s u o  M azetto, B., & Costa Malateaux da  Silva, E. (2021). Economic analysis for 
implantation of an offshore wind farm in the Brazilian coast. Sustainable Energy Technologies and 
Assessments, 43 , 100955. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.seta.2020.100955 
Marugán, A. P ., Márquez, F . P . G., Perez, J. M. P ., & Ruiz-Hern ández, D. (2018). A survey of artificial neural 
network in wind energy systems. Applied Energy. 
Massimo, F., Markus, L., & Tobias, W. (2022). Swiss Finance Ins titute Research Paper Ser ies N ° 17-23. Swiss 
Finance Institute Res earch Paper Series. 
M c K e n n a ,  R . ,  O s t m a n ,  P . ,  &  F i c h t n e r ,  W .  ( 2 0 1 6 ) .  K e y  c h a l l e n g e s  and prospects for large wind turbines. 
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 53 , 1212-1221. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2015.09.080 
Meng, X., Shen, Z., Yue, Y ., Pi, Y ., & Tan, W. (2012). An impro vement to the coordination method of ant colony 
algorithm. In Proceedings - 2012 International Conference on Co mputer Distributed Control and Intelligent 
Environmental Monitoring, CDCIEM 2012 (pp. 114-117). 
Menon, D., Anand, B., & Chowdhary, C. L. (2023). Digital Twin: Exploring the Intersection of Virtual and 
Physical Worlds. IEEE Access, 11 (July), 75152-75172. 
Mills, A. D., Millstein, D., & Jeong, S., et.al (2018). Estimat ing the value of offshore wind along the United 
States’ Eastern Coast. Environmental Research Letters, 13 (9). 
Mohan, J., Lanka, K., & Rao, A. N. (2019). A review of dynamic job shop scheduling techniques. Procedia 
Manufacturing, 30 , 34-39. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.promfg.2019.02.006 
Moher, D., et.al (2009). Preferred reporting items for systemat ic reviews and meta-analyses: The PRISMA 
statement. PLoS Medicine, 6 (7). http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1000097 
Morales, R., et.al (2018). Efficient refactoring scheduling bas ed on partial order reduction. Journal of Systems 
and Software, 145 , 25-51. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2018.07.076 
Morshed, J., & Kaluarachchi, J. J. (1998). Application of artif icial neural network and genetic algorithm in flow 
and transport simulations. Advances in Water Resources, 22 (2), 145-158. 
Nachimuthu, S., Zuo, M. J., & Ding, Y . (2019). A decision-makin g model for corrective maintenance of offshore 
wind turbines considering uncertainties. Energies, 12 (8). 
Naderi, B., & Roshanaei, V . (2020) . Branch-Relax-and-Check: A t ractable decomposition method for order 
acceptance and identical parallel machine scheduling. European Journal of Operational Research, 286 (3), 
811-827. 
Nerlinger, M., & Utz, S. (2022). The impact of the Russia-Ukrai ne conflict on the green energy transition - A 
capital market perspective. SSRN Electronic Journal.  Retrieved from 
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4132666 
Nguyen, T . A.  T .,  & C hou, S. Y .  ( 2018) . I m pact of gove rnm ent su bsidies on economic feasibility of offshore 
w i n d  s y s t e m :  I m p l i c a t i o n s  f o r  T a i w a n  e n e r g y  p o l i c i e s .  Applied Energy, 217 (February), 336-345. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2018.02.046 
Nguyen, T . A. T ., Chou, S. Y ., & Y u, T . H. K. (2022). Developin g an exhaustive optimal maintenance schedule 
for offshore wind turbines based on risk-assessment, technical factors and cost-effective evaluation. Energy, 
249, 123613. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2022.123613 
Nguyen, T. H., Prinz, A., & Noll, J. (2013). Proactive maintena nce of offshore wind turbine blades using 
knowledge-based force analysis. 2013 3rd International Conference on Innovative Computing Technology, 
INTECH 2013. 
Nielsen, J. S., & Sørensen, J. D . (2014). Methods for risk-base d planning of O&M of wind turbines. Energies, 
7(10), 6645-6664. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
23 
 Nourelfath, M., & Dutuit, Y . (2004). A combined approach to sol ve the redundancy optimization problem for 
multi-state systems under repair policies. Reliability Engineering and System Safety, 86 (3), 205-213. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2004.01.002 
Optehostert, F., Müller, D., & Jussen, P. (2017). Dispositionin g strategies of maintenance tasks in offshore wind 
farms. IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 513 , 101-108. 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). (n.d.). The measurem ent of scientific and 
technological activities. Proposed guidelines for collecting an d interpreting technological innovation data. 
Retrieved from https://www.oecd .org/science/i nno/2367614.pdf 
Ouaarab, A., Ahiod, B., & Yang, X. S. (2014). Discrete cuckoo s earch algorithm for the travelling salesman 
problem. Neural Computing and Applications, 24 (7-8), 1659-1669. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00521-013-1416-3 
Pandit, R. K., Kolios, A., & Infield, D. (2020). Data-driven we ather forecasting models performance comparison 
for improving offshore wind turbine availability and maintenanc e. IET Renewable Power Generation, 
14(13), 2386-2394. 
Parastar, A., & Seok, J. K. (2013) . High-power-density power co nversion systems for HVDC-connected offshore 
wind farms. Journal of Power Electronics, 13 (5), 737-745. 
Pérez, E. (2022). A simulation-driven online scheduling algorit hm for the maintenance and operation of wind 
farm systems. Simulation, 98 (1), 47-61. 
Pezeshki, Z., & Mazinani, S. M. (2019). Comparison of artificia l neural networks, fuzzy logic and neuro fuzzy 
for predicting optimization of building thermal consumption: A survey. Artificial Intelligence Review, 1 . 
Pincirol, L., Baraldi, P., & Zio, E. (2023). Maintenance optimi zation in industry 4.0. Reliability Engineering and 
System Safety, 234 (June 2022), 109204. https://doi .org/10.1016/j.ress.2023.109204  
Possan, E., & De Oliveira Andrade, J. J. (2014). Markov chains and reliability analysis for reinforced concrete 
structure service life. Materials Research, 17 (3), 593-602. 
Poulsen, T., & Hasager, C. B. (2016). How expensive is expensiv e enough? Opportunities for cost reductions in 
offshore wind energy logistics. Energies,  9(6). 
Ren, Z., et.al (2021). Offshore wind turbine operations and mai ntenance: A state-of-the-art review. Renewable 
and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 144 (August 2020). 
Rezamand, M., et.al (2020). Critical Wind Turbine Components Pr ognostics: A Comprehensive Review. IEEE 
Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, 69 (12), 9306-9328. 
Rezamand, M., et.al (2021). Condition Monitoring and Failure pr ognostic of Wind Turbine Blades. Conference 
Proceedings - IEEE International Conferen ce on Systems, Man and Cybernetics , 1711-1718. 
Roy, B. (1996). Multicriteria Methodology for Decision Aiding. Springer US. 
Rygielski, C., Wang, J.-C., & Yen, D. C. (2002). Data mining te chniques for customer relationship management. 
Sacramento, D., Pisinger, D., & Ropke, S. (2019). An adaptive l arge neighborhood search  metaheuristic for the 
vehicle routing problem with drones. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, 102 , 
289-315. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.03.017 
Scarf, P. A. (2007). A Framework for Condition Monitoring and C ondition Based Maintenance. Quality 
Technology & Quantitative Management, 4 (2), 301-312. 
Scheu, M. N., et.al (2017). Influence of statistical uncertaint y of component reliability estimations on offshore 
wind farm availability. Reliability Engineering and System Safety, 168 (May), 28-39. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2017.05.021 
Scheu, M. N., et.al (2019). A systematic Failure Mode Effects a nd Criticality Analysis for offshore wind turbine 
systems towards integrated condition-based maintenance strategi es. Ocean Engineering, 176 (January), 
118-133. 
Scheu, M., et.al (2018). Human exposure to motion during mainte nance on floating offshore wind turbines. 
Ocean Engineering, 165 (July), 293-306. 
Schröder, T. (2019). “flexPad” - Innovative conical sliding bea ring for the main shaft of wind turbines. Journal 
of Physics: Conference Series , 1222. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
24 
 Schwenzer, M., Ay, M., Bergs, T., & Abel, D. (2021). Review on model predictive control: An engineering 
perspective. International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00170-021-07153-2 
Shafiee, M. (2014). An optimal g roup maintenance policy for mul ti-unit offshore wind turbines located in remote 
areas. 2014 International Conference on Probabilistic Methods A pplied to Power Systems, PMAPS 2014 - 
Conference Proceedings, 0-5. 
Shafiee, M., et al. (2013). A red undancy optimization model app lied to offshore wind turbine power converters. 
2013 IEEE Grenoble Conference Po werTech, POWERTECH 2013. Retrie ved from: IEEE. 
Sinha, Y ., & Steel, J. A. (2015). A progressive study into offs hore wind farm maintenance optimisation using 
risk-based failure analysis. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 42 , 735-742. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2014.10.087 
Skaare B., et al. (2007). Integrated dynamic analysis of floati ng offshore wind turbines. In European Wind 
Energy Conference  (pp. 7-10). 
Srinivasan, R., & Parlikad, A. K. (2013). Value of condition mo nitoring in infrastructure maintenance. 
Computers and Industrial Engineering, 66 (2), 233-241. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2013.05.022 
Suganthi, L., Iniyan, S., & Samuel, A. A. (2015). Applications of fuzzy logic in renewable energy systems - A 
review. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 48 , 585-607. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2015.04.037 
Sung, T. K., Chang, N., & Lee, G. (1999). Dynamics of Modeling in Data Mining: Inte rpretive Approach to 
Bankruptcy Prediction. Journal of Management Information Systems, 16 (1), 63-85. 
T’Kindt, V ., & Billaut, J. C. (2006). Multicriteria scheduling problems. In Multiple Criteria Optimization: State 
of the Art Annotated Bibliographic Surveys (pp. 445-491). 
Tewolde, S., Hoffer, R., & Mueller, I. (2020). Towards structur al health monitoring-based risk-based inspection 
planning for offshore wind turbi ne support structures. Proceedi ngs of the International Conference on 
Structural Dynamic, EURODYN 2020. 
Thorsteinsson, E. S. (2001). Branch-and-check: A hybrid framewo rk integrating mixed integer programming and 
constraint logic programming. Lecture Notes in Computer Science  (including subseries Lecture Notes in 
Artificial Intelligence and Lectur e Notes in Bioinformatics), 2 239, 16-30. 
Tsoukiàs, A. (2008). From decision theory to decision aiding me thodology. European Journal of Operational 
Research, 187 (1), 138-161. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2007.02.020 
Van Belle, J., et al. (2014). Common and unique neural networks  for proactive and reactive response inhibition 
revealed by independent componen t analysis of functional MRI da ta. NeuroImage, 103 , 65-74. 
Venkatesan, S., Manickavasagam, K., Tengenkai, N., & Vijayalaks hmi, N. (2019). Health monitoring and 
prognosis of electric vehicle motor using intelligent-digital t win. IET Electric Power Applications, 13 (9), 
1328-1335. http://dx.doi.org/10.1049/iet-epa.2018.5460 
V oulodimos, A., Doulamis, N., Doulamis, A., & Protopapadakis, E . (2018). Deep Learning for Computer Vision: 
A Brief Review. Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience. Hi ndawi Limited. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2018/7068349 
Wang, J., Lu, S., Wang, S. H., & Zhang, Y . D. (2021). A review on extreme learning machine.  Multimedia Tools 
and Applications.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11042-021-10862-2 
Wang, P., Ruan, D., & Kerre, E. (2007). Studies in Fuzziness and Soft Computing . New York: Springer Verlag. 
Welte, T. M., et al. (2017). Integration of degradation process es in a strategic offshore wind farm O&M 
simulation model. Energies, 10 (7). 
Wu, Q., & Lin, H. (2019). Short-term wind speed forecasting bas ed on hybrid variational mode decomposition 
and least squares support vect or machine optimised by bat algor ithm model.  Sustainability  (Switzerland), 
11(3). 
Xie, Y . (2014). Offshore wind turbines operation and maintenanc e in China: A case study of Donghai Bridge 
Offshore Wind Farm. Applied Mechanics and Materials , 448-453(September 2010), 1871-1874. 
Yu, Q., Patriksson, M., & Sagitov, S. (2021). Optimal schedulin g of the next preventive maintenance activity for 
a wind farm. Wind Energy Science, 6 (3), 949-959. 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
ijbm.ccsenet.org International Jo urnal of Business and Manageme nt V ol. 19, No. 3; 2024 
25 
 Zadeh, L. A. (1965). Fuzzy sets. Information and Control, 8 (3), 338-353. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0019-9958(65)90241-X 
Zadeh, L. A. (1975). The concept of a linguistic variable and i ts application to approximate reasoning-I. 
Information Sciences, 8 (3), 199-249. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0020-0255(75)90036-5 
Zadeh, L. A. (2015). Fuzzy logic - A personal perspective. Fuzzy Sets and Systems, 281 , 4-20. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.fss.2015.05.009 
Zhao, Q. (2022). Fault Diagnosis Method for Wind Power Equipmen t Based on Hidden Markov Model. Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing . http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2022/5549131 
Zhong, S., et.al (2018). Constrained non-linear multi-objective  optimization of preventive maintenance 
scheduling for offshore wind farms. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 104 , 347-369. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymssp.2017.10.035 
Zhong, S., et.al (2019). A reliability-and-cost-based fuzzy app roach to optimize preventive maintenance 
scheduling for offshore wind farms.  Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 124 , 643-663. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymssp.2019.02.012 
Zhou, X., Zhang, G., Sun, J., et.al (2019). Minimizing cost and  makespan for workflow scheduling in cloud 
using fuzzy dominance sort-based HEFT. Future Generation Computer Systems, 93,  278-289. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.10.046 
Zhou, Y ., et.al (2020). Bio-objec tive long-term maintenance sch eduling for wind turbines in multiple wind farms. 
Renewable Energy, 160 , 1136-1147. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2020.07.065 
Zuo, L., Shu, L., Dong, S., Zhu, C., & Hara, T. (2015). A multi -objective optimization scheduling method based 
on the ant colony algorithm in cloud computing. IEEE Access, 3 , 2687-2699. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2015.2474143 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 Copyrights 
Copyright for this article is re tained by the author(s), with f irst publication rights granted to the journal. 
This is an open-access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution 
license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
