Wind Turbine Gearbox Failure and Remaining Useful Life 
Prediction  Using Machine Learning  Techniques .  
James Carroll *, Sofia Koukoura , Alasdair McDonald, Anastasis Charalambous  
Stephan Weiss and Stephen McArthur  
 
All Authors: Electronic and E lectrical Engineering , Uni versity of Strathclyde, Glasgow, Scotland  
*Corresponding Author Email: j.carroll@strath.ac.uk   
*Corresponding Author Address: Room 336, EEE Department, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow,  G1 1XD  
 
ABSTRA CT 
This research investigate s the predicti on of  failure and remaini ng useful life  (RUL)  of gearboxes for modern 
multi -megawatt  wind turbines . Failure  and RUL  are predicted through the use of  machine learning techniques 
and large amounts of  labelled  wind turbine  SCADA and  vibration  data.  The novelty of this w ork stems from 
unprecedented  access to one of  the world’s  largest wind turbine operational  and reliability databases, 
containing  thousands of  turbine  gearbox failure  examples  and complete  SCADA and vibration data in the 
build up to those failures . Through access to that data this paper is unique in having enough failure examples  
and data  to draw the conclusions detailed in the reminder of this abstract.    
This paper show s that artificial  neural networks provide the most accurate failure and RUL  prediction  out of 
three  machine learning techniques trialled . This work  also demonstrates  that SCAD A data can be used to 
predict failure up to a month before it  occurs and high frequency vibration data can be used to extend that 
accurate prediction capability to 5 -6 months before fail ure. T his paper demonstrates that two clas s neural 
networks can correc tly predict gearbox failures between 72.5  and 75 % of the time depending on the failure 
mode when trained with SCADA data and 100% of the time when trained with vibration data.  Data trends in 
the build up to failure and weighting of the SCADA data inputs ar e also provided.  Lastly, this work show s 
how multi -class neural networks demonstrate  more potential  in predicting  gearbox failure when trained with 
vibration  data as opposed to training with  SCADA data.  
Keywords:  Failure, R emaining Useful Life , Prediction , Wind Turbine, Gearbox, Machine Learning, 
Vibration , SCADA  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
1. Introduction  
The cost of energy (CoE) for offshore wind is  currently too high to make it truly competitive with traditional  
fossil fuel  energy gen eration techniques .1 Past analys is has shown that  costs for offs hore wind energy are 
roughly 40% higher th an gas turbine generation and  30% higher than onshore wind .2  Consequently,  industry, 
research institutes and academia are working towards lowering the CoE for  offshore wind. High  opera tion 
and maint enance (O&M) costs present an opportunity to lower this CoE . O&M costs  can be up to 30%  of 
the overall CoE  for some offshore wind farms 3 and it is expected that this could further increase in the 
coming years  as wind farms move further offshore and into h arsher environments .  
Both downtime and costs – as a consequence of poor maintenance planning – can be reduced through an 
ability to predict if and when wind turbine components will fail . Data analytics , feature extraction an d 
machine learning techniques  show promising potential to achieve this .4-10 The gearbox has one of the highest 
downtimes and replacement costs out o f all wind turbine components.11 Consequently,  trying to predict  
gearbox  failure has been the focus of a number of past  papers.4, 6, 10, 12-21 Amongst techniques to predict 
gearbox failure, there are both model -based 13, 17 and data -driven  4, 7, 8, 19, 22 approaches.  In the past, m odel-
based approaches have utilised  a non-linear model of the system 13 or a temperatu re model of the gearbox. 17 
The quality of the failure prediction will depend on the complexity and accuracy of the model, which may 
be adjusted by data -driven components .15 Data -driven approaches are typically based on supervisory control 
and data acquisition (SCADA) measurements  and relate d inputs. 6, 10, 12, 15 , 20 
For da ta-driven approaches, r eference 10 outlines a method for detecting wind turbine gearbox and generator  
failures  using SCADA data. It explains how anomaly -detec tion techniques and multi -agent systems could be 
used to create a decision support tool for wind turbine operators . The anomaly dete ction techniques used in 
10 model predicted gearbox oil and bearing temperature based on  other SCADA data inputs, specifically,  
power generated  and n acelle temperature. Expected  gearbox and oil temperatures were modeled for given 
power generated and nacelle temperature readings. If the actual  values varied by a cert ain amount from the 
modeled  value an anomaly was detected.  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Data -driven methods are typically trained to extract fea tures from data and execute a classification by 
machi ne learning techniques such as artific ial neural networks  (ANNs) .12, 15, 20 Since often a significant 
number of parameters have to be adjusted, the size of the data set available for training is importan t. The lack 
of large data sets is further exacerbated by the need to isolate a test set from the data, which is used to assess 
the performance of the method and must be separate from the training set. One  way that has been attempted   
to combat this has be en to utilize  fast-adaptation for ANNs in order to be able to reduce the size o f the training 
data set.15 
In this paper, we address the detection of gearbox failure and remaining useful life predictions through the 
use of large amounts of o perational and r eliability data . This data comprises of SCADA, but additionally 
includes  high frequency vibration data, O&M orders and logs.   This data is used to train and test machine 
learning algorithms to predict failure.  High frequency vibration data has prove d useful in the prediction of 
gearbox failures in automotive applications . 23, 24  
The analysis presented in this paper rests on three novel aspects : (i) the large data set on which the analysis 
is based ; (ii) the inclusion of high -frequency vib ration  data into the failure and RUL prediction  of gearboxes 
specifically for wind turbine s; and (iii) the availability of a significantly high er number of failure cases than 
had previously been reported else where . On the latter point, past papers 5, 10, 20, 25, all re lied on less than 5 
failure examples for their training , while this work relies on hundreds of failure cases from thousands of 
turbines. Based on this data and methodology for predicting the failure and remaining useful life of wind 
turbine gearboxes, enou gh examples of the exact same failure mode exist to allow for failure mode specific 
remaining useful life predictions , which have not been reported  in the literature previously.  
2. Method  
2.1 Overview  
The method s used to predict failure and remaining useful life typically require large amounts of failure 
examples and wind turbine operational data to train and test the machine learning algorithms. A leading wind 
turbine manufacturer  provided full access to their operational logs, failure logs, SCADA data and vibrat ion 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
data from the tens of thousands of turbines they monitor located in thousands of wind farms globally. D ue to 
the gearbox being the sub -system of the turbine that has the highest fa ilure cost associated with  it 5, the 
industrial partners agreed that it should be t he component that is the focus  of this work. Working with the 
wind turbine manufacture r, a large number of the same type of gearbox failures from the same type of gearbox 
model were identified. Details of these failur e modes can be seen in Secti on 2.2 . Using the failure logs the 
date of each failure was recorded  and SCADA data and vibration data from various time periods in the build 
up to  failure were  identified,  obtained  and labeled . Once the SCADA data and vibration data was obtained it 
was preprocessed and plotted to qualitatively determine how it changed at various points in the build up to 
failure. The SCADA and vibration data was then used to test and train the machine learning algorithms. 
Different machine learning algorithms and training groups were then tested to determine the algorithm and 
training method that provided the most accurate failure and remaining useful life predictions.  Weightings of 
the inputs were determined and c onclusions were then drawn on the possibility of predicting failure and 
remaining useful life using machine learning techniques tested and trained with SC ADA and Vibration data. 
The following 6 steps  provide a high level overview of each of the work packages  required to complete  this 
research . The following sub -sections then provide  further details on each  of the steps outlined below . Step 2 
aligns with Subsection 2.2, step 3 aligns with Subsection 2.3 and so on up to step 5.  
Step 1:  Obtain Access to the operational data of a major wind turbine manufacturer . 
Step 2: Identify a population of failures from the same gearbox model and same failure mode . 
Step 3:  Obtain the SCADA data and vibration data in the build up to failures from the populations identified 
in Step 2 . 
Step 4:  Pre-process and plot the SCADA and vibr ation data in the build up to failures . 
Step 5:  Train and test  different machine learning algorithms using different training groups and determine 
weightings . 
Step 6:  Draw conclusions on the use of machine learning algorithms trained with SCADA and vibration data 
for predicting failure and RUL . 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
2.2 Failure modes  and Population details  
This sub -section provides further  details on Step 2 from  Section 2.1 . When selecting popu lations of failure 
modes and gearbox models to use in this work, two gearbox models that encountered repeated failures were 
chosen. Both of  the gearbox models include  a low speed planetary stage , an intermediate  stage  and a  high 
speed  parallel  stage  (Figure 1) . The two gearbox models come from a different turbine type. Both gearbo x 
models are used in multi -MW scale turbines with a rating of  between  2MW  and 4MW  and a r otor diameter 
of between  80 and 120  metres . Both turbine types use high speed gearbo xes with induction generators.  The 
failure examples in this paper come from over 50 different wind farms located throughout Europe.  Further 
details on the turbine types cannot be provided for confidentiality reasons.  
All gearboxes that encounter the gear bearing  issue are the same gearbox model and for the same turbine type  
(‘A’) . Similarly, all gearboxes that encounter the gear tooth  issue are the same gearbox model and for the 
same turbine type  (‘B’) .  
Both gearbox configurations and locations of where t he vibration readings were obtained are seen in Figure 
1. Gearbox “A” has two planetary stages and one parallel stage and gearbox type “B” has one planetary stage 
and two parallel stages:  
 
 
Figure 1 . Gearbox confi gurations and location of accele rometers  
 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
For the purpose of this analysis the date of failure is defined as the date at which the wind turbine was stopped 
for the gearbox to be replaced or repaired. As far as the author is aware these repairs and replacem ents were 
carried out due to critical fail ures rather than due to the predicted possibility of a critical failure.  In this case , 
components reached the point of critical failure because the condition monitoring system used did not pick 
up the possibility of failure in advance.    
 
2.2.1 Gearbox Be aring Issue  
The gearbox planet bearing issue is located on the low speed planetary stage of the gearbox. The bearing 
issue eventually results in complete failure of the bearing and subsequently the gearbox. When this occurs 
the turbine is shut down and onl y restarted once a complete gearbox exchange occurs. For training and testing 
of the machine learning algorithms in this work, the data from 200 different examples of this fa ilure were 
obtained from turbine  type A and gearbox model A. Figure 2 shows a borescope image of the bearing in the 
lead up to failure in which indents in the raceway and rolling element can be seen.  
 
                                            Figure 2. Borescope  image of bearing i ssue showing indents   
2.2.2 Gear Tooth  Issue  
The gearbox tooth issue is located on the pinion of the intermediate stage of the gearbox. The tooth issue 
eventually results in complete failure of the intermediate stage of the gearbox. When this occurs the turbine 
is shut down and only restarted once an exchange of the intermediate gearbox stage occurs. For training and 
testing of the machine learning algorithms in this work, the data from 28 different examples of this fa ilure 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
were obtained from turbine  type B and gearbox model B. Figure 3 shows a  borescope image of the gear tooth 
in the lead up to failure  in which the damaged pinion tooth can be seen . 
 
                                                   Figure 3. Borescope  image of pinion tooth damage   
 
2.3 Obtain SCADA and Vibration Data  
In the wind  turbine manufacture r’s operational data centre a number of different data bases exist. Once  a 
failure date was identifi ed for a certain gearbox in one  database, a second database  was accessed to get the 
SCADA data  in the build up to that failure. This proc ess was carried out for each failure in both the gearbox 
bearing issue population and the gear tooth issue population. The SCADA data was exported from the wind 
turbine manufacturer’s data center  using SQL. As the vibration data is such high frequency data , it is stored 
in a different manner to the SCADA data. It is located on a server in a text file format for ease of storage. 
The required vibration files were found through the wind farm name and turbine ID and subsequently 
downloaded.  
2.4 SCADA and Vibration Data P re-processing  and Trending  
This sub -section provides further details on  Step 4 from Section 2.1,  the pre -processing of the SCADA data 
and the vibration data . In this research , monthly intervals were used when describing the time to failure  for 
both t he SCADA and vibration data . The authors and industrial partner decided to work  with monthly 
intervals fo llowing an early discussion about the  industrial partner ’s needs in terms of  failure warning periods 
for maintenance planning. Following that discussio n, it was agreed that for maintenance planning reasons  (in 
this particular case)  know ledge that  a component would fail in the next month was equally as useful as 
knowing it would fail i n the next week or day. For that  reason , monthly periods were chosen.  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
2.4.1 SCADA data pre -processing  and Trending  
SCADA data from a number of periods before failure were taken. One thousand and eight , ten-minute  
averaged data points per sensor, or one week’s worth of data, from 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 6 months,  
1 year  and 1.5 years  before failure were obtained. Once  the data was obtained , the SCADA data quality was 
checked to ensure no  large  periods were missing. After the SCADA da ta quality was confirmed,  the sensor 
temperature readings were subtracted from each other to provide differences in temperature (ΔT) to train the 
machine learning algorithms. For example, directl y from the SCADA system a  gear oil temperature reading  
(Toil) and an ambient temperature reading  (Tamb) were obtained, and the difference in temperatures was found 
ΔT  = Toil – Tamb. This ΔT was considered because if the ambient or nacelle temperature r ises significantly 
then the gearbox oil temperature may also rise even when the gearbox is in a healthy state.  To determine the 
importance of fe ature engineering ( e.g. using the deltas)  in this case, a results comparison was carried out 
when deltas were included and excluded. When the neural network hyper -parameters were not optimized , 
the number of correct predictions were 3% higher when deltas were included. However, when hyper -
parameters were optimized the correct predictions were the same , regardless of whether the deltas were 
included.  As having the deltas  included  did not decrease  the accuracy of the predictions it was decid ed to 
include them in this anal ysis. 
The following SCADA data columns  were obtained from the bearing issue in gearbox model A/turbine type 
A. The column  headings  shown in italic  did not come directly from the SC ADA system, those data points 
are the deltas between the readings that came directly from the SCADA system (shown as non -italic 
headings). All readings including  the temperature deltas resulted in 2 7 inputs for the training of the machine 
learning algorith ms for the gearbox bearing issue . 
1. Gear Oil Temp erature (S ensor 1 ) 
2. Gear Oil Temperature (Sensor 2)  
3. ΔT Oil Sensor  1 and Oil Sensor  2 
4. ΔT Oil Sensor 1 and Nacelle  
5. ΔT Oil Sensor 1 and Ambient  6. ΔT Oil Sensor 2 and Nacelle  
7. ΔT Oil Sensor 2 and Ambient  
8. Gear Bear ing 1  Temperature  
9. Gear Bearing 2 Temperature  
10. Gear Bearing 3 Temperature  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
11. Gear Bearing 4 Temperature  
12. Gear Bearing 5 Temperature  
13. ΔT Bearing 1 and Nacelle  
14. ΔT Bearing 1 and Ambient  
15. ΔT Bearing 2 and Nacelle  
16. ΔT Bearing 2 and Ambient  
17. ΔT Bearing 3 and Nacelle  
18. ΔT Bearing 3 and Ambient  
19. ΔT Bearing 4 and Nacelle  20. ΔT Bearing 4 and Ambient  
21. ΔT Bearing 5 and Nacelle  
22. ΔT Bearing 5 and Ambient  
23. Nac elle Temp erature  
24. Rotor Speed  
25. Wind  Speed  
26. Amb ient Temp erature  
27. Total Power P roduction  
 
The same procedure was followed for the gear tooth issue. However,  Turbine Type B’s SCADA system is 
less advanced than type A. It consist s of less sensors around the gearbox resulting i n less direct readings and 
less temperature d eltas. In total 12 input columns  were obtained for testing and training the machine learning 
algorithms.  
1. Gen erator Speed  
2. Gear Oil Temperature S ensor  
3. ΔT Oil Sensor and Nacelle  
4. ΔT Oil Sensor and Ambient  
5. Gear Bear ing Temperature  
6. ΔT Gear Bearing and Nacelle  7. ΔT Gear Bearing and Ambient  
8. Nacelle Temperature  
9. Rotor Speed  
10. Wind Speed  
11. Ambient Temperature  
12. Total Power Production  
 
The SCADA temperature data was then plotted to determine the trends in the data in the build up to failure. 
Thes e plots ca n be seen in Section 3.1 .   
2.4.2 Vibration data pre -processing  and trending : 
As mentione d in the previous step the vibration  data was obtained from the industrial partner  in a text file 
format .  Vibration data from a number of periods before failure were taken. One te xt file was taken each 
week in the build up to failure. As the accelerometers were providing data above  25 kHz  and each file 
contained 10 seconds  of data,  over 250,000 readings were provided per accelerometer. Each file contains  
data from 10 different accelerometers  or tachometers  from various  locations on the drivetrain, so each 10  
second  file has over 2,500,000 data points. In the case of the intermediate stage pinion tooth issue, the 
intermediate stage accelerometer and tachom eter were  the focus of the work. The 256,000  vibration  data 
readings were imported to MATLAB  and through the application of  Fast Fourier Transform  (FFT)  and Order 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Tracking functions the spectrum plots  shown in Figure 4 and Figure 10  were created (order tra cking accounts 
for the varying rotational speed in modern variable speed wind turbines). The vibration d ata from various 
time instances before the failure were consider  and plotted to show the vibration trends in the build up to 
failure.  A picture emerges of the side bands rising around the gear meshing frequency as the time axis gets 
closer to the point for failure. The resulti ng plot can be seen in Section 3. 2, Figure 10 . A similar process for 
the bearing issue was followed, however the t rends toward failure were not clear when an FFT was applied. 
For that  reason and based on 26 an envelope analysis was carried  out. Even with the envelope analysis , clear 
trends were not seen around the ball passing frequencies  on the bearing issue . 
To obta in inputs for training the machine learning algorithms with the vibration data, magnitude readings 
were t aken from the spectrum. Figure 4 shows the spectrum from one time period in the build up to failure  
of the gear tooth . The rising sidebands can be seen  around the gear meshing frequen cy. The red lines on 
Figure 4 indicate s the point s on the spectrum where magnitude readings were taken  (indicated in red, above 
the spectrum) . Past literature suggest s that the magnitude and shape of the gear meshing frequen cy and its 
side bands is ind icative of a gear tooth issue 27. This was repeated  for the 2nd, 3rd and 4th harmonic s, as 
suggested by  27.  
 
Figure 4. Data points taken from spectrum for training of machine learning techniques . (Figure created using vibration 
data from gear tooth issue)  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
While clear trends are seen around the gear meshing frequency for the gear tooth issue shown in Figure 4, no 
clear trends around ba ll passing frequencies were easily identified in the bearing issue. Accordingly , a large 
number of magnitude reading s were taken from the spectral area  around  the ball passing frequencies . The 
magnitude readings as shown in  Figure 4 and from the bearing issue spectrum were then used to train the 
machine learning algorithms.   
2.5 Machine le arning algorithms selection testing and training  
Three popular machine learning algorithms were  trained and t ested in this research:  an artificial neural 
network, a support vector machine (SVM) and a logistic regression  approach . An analysis (results shown i n 
Section 3.3 ) compared the numbe r of correct predictions from the three different techniques . The algorithm 
that provided the highest number of correct prediction s then became the focus of the other failure and 
remaining useful l ife prediction analyses in this paper.  
The labeled SCADA and vibration data detailed in Section 2.4.1 and 2.4.2  were imported to Azure Ma chine 
Learning St udio 28 for algorithm testing and training. In this research the SCADA  and vibration  data were 
split, with 70% used for training and 30% used for testing of all machine learning algorithms , as in 29. This 
SCADA and vibration data split  can be seen for the gear bearing issue  in Figure 5 . The same 70/30 split was 
used for the gear tooth issue.   
  
Figure 5. SCADA and Vibration Data Split for Gear Bearing Issue  
 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
The input dimensionality for the SCADA data gear bearing model is the 2 7 SCADA data readings detailed 
in Section 2.4.1. The input dimensionality for the SCADA data gear tooth model is the additional 12 SCADA 
data readings detailed in Section 2.4.1.  
The input dimensionality for the vibration data gear tooth model is the  63 magnitude readings from the 
spectrum (after an FFT has been carried out on the raw vibration data  as shown in Figur e 4) at the gear 
meshing frequencies and the sidebands of the gear meshing frequencies. 63 magnitude readings are taken 
from the spectr um for the first, second , third  and fourth  gear meshing frequency giving a total of 252 inputs.   
The input dimensionality  for the vibration data gear bearing model is the 30 magnitude readings  either side 
of the ball passing frequency spread at 0.25Hz spacing. With 30 readings either side of the ball passing 
frequency a total of 60 magnitude readings are taken for each ball passing frequency. In total , magnitude 
readings are taken from the spectrum for the firs t 4 b all passing frequencies  (as for the gear tooth issue)  
giving a total of 240 inputs.  
In both vibration examples mentioned above, m agnitude readings are taken from the spectrum around 
frequencies of interest and used as training inputs to allow the algorithms to learn the behavior of important 
parts of the spectrum in labeled healthy and unhealthy data.   
A number of different algorit hm hyper -parameters were used in the training of the neural networks, SVMs 
and logistic regression algorithms . To optimize the r esults of this work the hyper -parameters were tuned.   
In the machine learning software used for this analysis (Azure Machine Lea rning Studi o) the function used 
to tune the hyper -parameters is called “Tune Model Hyper -parameter”. To tune the hyper -parameters this 
function tests multiple models, using different combinations from a grid of inputs, and compares metrics over 
all models to get the optimum combination of settings. For this case , the optimum combination of settings is 
determined  by the highest number of correct predictions. To tune the model , this function performs a 
parameter sweep over the entire grid of parameter setting s, and learns the optimum inputs  to obtain the 
highest number of correct predictions.  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
With the  optimized  hyper -parameters , shown below,  and the raw data used in this analysis,  the results in this 
paper can  be replicated in Azure Machine Learning Studio.   
The following  optimized  hyper -parameters were used in the training of the  two-class  and multi -class  artificial 
neural network s. Further detail from each parameter can also be found in 28 
 Number of hidden nodes: The mean of the number of inputs and number of outputs.  
 Learning rate: 0. 08 
 Number of learning iterations: 400 
 Initial learning weight: 0.1  
 Momentum: 0  
Normalizer:  Min-max normali zer  
The training procedure for the neural network employs stochastic gradient descent using back propagation 
as a gradient computing technique. The learning rate input determines the size of the step that is used in 
stochastic gradient descent.  The loss function used in this case is the cross-entropy loss function.  
The following parameters were used in the training of  the two-class  SVM:  
 Number of iterations: 10 0 
 Lamda: 0.00001 
The following parameters were used in the training of the  two-class  logistic regression algorithm:  
 Optimisation tolerance: 1 ×10-7 
 L1 regularisation weight: 0.1 
 L2 regularisation weight: 0.01 
 Memory size for L -BFGS: 50 
Following the training of the  two-class and multi -class  machine learning algorithms with 70% of the data , 
the remaining 30% of the data was used to test the algorithms to determine the number of correct predictions, 
missed failur es and false positives. For the purpose of this paper , a “false positive” is defined as an output 
labeled as closer to the point of failure than it actually is. For example, an output saying the gear bearing is 
1-2 months to failure wh en in reality it is 5 -6 months would be considered a false positive.  A number of 
different data groupings were tested for training a n artificial neural network. These gro upings are outlined in 
Section 3.5 .  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Weightings of the 2 7 SCADA data inputs  for the bearing issue  were determined using a “permutation feature 
importance”  (PFI)  function .30 The function returns an importance score for each input used in the prediction. 
The evaluation metr ic was chosen to be the accuracy  of the learning algorithm. The PFI function  computes 
the sensitivity of a model in terms of the evaluation metric to random change s of the input values. Once 
weightings were established using the PFI function, a  backward elimination process was implemented to 
evaluate the accuracy. More specificall y, starting with all the inputs of the model, the feature wit h the least 
importance score was  pruned in each it eration until all but one of the inputs were  removed . This method is 
discussed in 31. The accuracy and the new importance scores were estima ted in each iteration. The feature  
importance scores, from higher to lower imp ortance and other results of this weighting analysis are shown  in 
Secti on 3.6 .  
 
3. Results  and Discussion  
 
3.1 SCADA data trends  
From a wind turbine operator’s perspective, it would be ideal if  gearbox bearing and oil temperature trends 
could be monitored to provide an indication of when a gearbox bearing failure or tooth issue will occur. 
However, the results shown in Figure s 6-9 – which correspond s with the experience provided by the industrial 
partner – indicate that a simple temperature trending approach alone is rarely successful  in highlighting 
potential failures . Figure 6  is a box plot of one week of SCADA bear ing temperature readings from 200  
different turbines i n the build up to gearbox  bearing failure s. In total each o f the 6 box plot contains ~201 ,600 
ten-minute  data points. With the hypothesis that both failure mechanisms lead to a rise in heat production 
inside the gearbox, failure should be indicated by a temperature rise. For iss ue detection to occur through a 
basic temperature trending technique  an operator would need to see a rise in the bearing temp erature  readings 
in the months leading up to the failure and a lower temperature in the readings classified as “healthy” (gr eater 
than 1.5 years before failure in this case ). However as seen in Figure 6 , although there is a difference between 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
the temperature distributions for the healthy gearboxes and the data for 1 -year-to-failure gearboxes – which 
could potentially  indicate f ault inception – there appears to be  no consistent changes thereafter.  
 
Figure 6 . Gear Bearing Temp erature  at various times before failure . (Figure created using SCADA data from gear 
bearing issue)  
Past papers have suggested a rise in oil temperature in the build up to failur e 32, consequently the authors also 
looked at the same number of SCADA data reading for the oil temperature in the build up to failure as 
outlined in the previous paragraph. Once again , there are some differences between healthy and 1 -year-to-
failure cases, but thereafter  no clear trends were observed.  
 
Figure 7 . Gear Oil Temp erature  at various times before failure . (Figure created using SCADA data from gear bearing 
issue)  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
As the ambient temperature could potentially influence the temperature readings in Figure 6  and Figure 7 , 
the delta between the  ambient temperature  and gear oil  was analyzed  and the results are seen in Figure 8 . For 
example,  if the ambient temperature was very low in the mo nth before failure it might mitigate  a temperature 
rise trend presenting itself  in Figure 6  and 7. However as seen in Figure 8  the box plots follow the same trend 
as Figure 7 indicating that gearbox temperature is not greatly influenced by  the ambient temperature. The 
ambient temperature display s little variance in the different time periods to failure.    
 
 
Figure 8 . Difference in g ear oil and a mbient  temperatures  at various times before failure . (Figure created using SCADA 
data from gear bearing issue)  
The temperature o f the gear bearing and gear oil  is also influenc ed by power production. Figure 9  shows the 
power production for each of the time periods in the build up to failure. When Figure 9  is compared with 
Figures 6 and 7 a similar  trend  in the power production and temperatures  can be see n which indicates the 
amount of power produced influences the temperature.  For example, “2 months” and “1 Year” have the 
highest power production and highest temperature readings.  While it is expected that the time period before 
the failure still has an ef fect on the temperature of the gearbox bearing and gear o il temperature, Figures 6-9 
suggest that the influence of power production seems to outweigh the effect of time period to failure.  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
Figure 9 . Power Production at various times before failure . (Figure created using SCADA data from gear bearing issue)  
Through the analysis of  the Figures 6-9, it is clear that other variables outside of time period to failure also 
influence the temperature of gear bearings and gear oil temperature.  For example , gear oil cooling systems 
will likely reduce the increase in gear oil temperature.  A similar analysis  to this gear bearing analysis  was 
carried out for the gear tooth issue outlined earlier in this paper and no clear temperature trends were seen in 
the build u p to failure for that failure mode  either.  As no clear trends are identified,  simple temperature 
trending  in isolation  may not be enough to correctly identify potential failures  due to the influence of other 
variables . For that reason, a machine learning approach  that considers many variables will be used, as 
demonstrated in Section 3 .4. 
 
3.2 Vibration data trends  
Figure 10  shows the spectrum with order tracking applied  to the vibration data at a number of time periods 
before a gear tooth failure . This technique uses the raw vibration data from the wind turbine ’s accelerometer s 
and combines it with tachometer data to offset the variable speed of the turbine allowing for a like for like 
trending analysis in the build up to failur e. Order number 6 in Figur e 10 is the gear mesh ing frequency . It is 
obvious from Figure 10  that a number of sidebands start to rise around the gear meshing frequency as the 
turbine gets closer to the point of failure. The trend gets clearer once the time period to failure is less t han 6 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
months. The magnitude  of the meshing peaks and side bands are ob tained  and labeled with their time period 
to failure to be used in the training of a neural network.   
 
Figure 10 . Vibration data  showing sidebands developing around the gear meshing frequency (order 6) . (Figure created 
using vibration data from gear tooth issue)  
Figure 10  displays the trends for the gear tooth issue in vibration data. A similar analysis was carried out with 
the vib ration data for the bearing issue detailed earlier in this paper. Unlike the gear tooth issue, no visible 
trends were seen in the gear bearing issue vibration data.  The bearing is located in the planetary stage of the 
gearbox and there is a lot of noise ar ound the ball passi ng frequencies, leaving it difficult  for the authors to 
pick out  failure indicative trends.  Consequently  ~260  magnitude readings from a round the ball passing 
frequencies  of the bearing were obtained  for each  text file for each  bearing failure , labeled with the time 
period to failure and used to tra in and test the classification  algorithms. Even though no visible  trends were 
clear when the bearing spectrum was plotted, machine learning algorithms c ould be able to recognize trend s 
in the magnitude readings from the classified vibration data to train a model to be able to classify unlabeled 
data.  This is tested in Section  3.4. 
3.3 Machine  learning algorithm selection  for gear bearing failures  using SCADA input  
To determine  which machin e learning algorithm provided the most correct health predictions three  differ ent 
two-class classification algorithms were trained and tested with SCADA data  for the gear bearing issue . The 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
three algorithms considered are the artificial neural network, a  SVM and logistic regression. The 2 7 SCADA 
data input s used are outlined in Section 2.4.1 . Following the training and testing procedure described in 
Section 2.5 , the results shown in Table 1  were obtained.  A correct prediction means that the algorithm 
correctly stated whether the gearbox bearing would fail in less than one mo nth or more than one month. A 
missed failure means the algorithm predicted the gearbox would not fail in the next month but the data came 
from a gearbox that did fail in that month. A f alse positive means the algorithm predicted the failure would 
occur in the next month when in reality it did not.   
It can be seen that  out of the three algorithms tested,  the artificial neural network provides the most correct  
failures and least missed fai lures , with 72.5% of  failures being correctly predicted . The support vector 
machine trained and tuned in this analysis used a linear kernel and produced 60% correct predictions. This 
correct prediction rate may be increased through the use of a different k ernel . Whilst the logistic regression 
had a  similar  number of correct predictions to the SVM , the SVM showed fewer false positives  but more 
missed failures  than Logistic Regr ession .  
 Artificial Neural 
Network  Support Vector 
Machine  Logistic Regression  
Correct Prediction  72.5 % 60% 59% 
Missed Failure  20% 36% 31% 
False Positive  7.5% 4% 10% 
Table 1 : Results of machine learning algorithm comparison  for gear bearing issue  
As the artificial neural network provided the highest number of correct predictions it became the focus of the 
remainder of the paper.  
3.4 Two -class neural  network predictions  for gear bearing and gear tooth failures, using both SCADA and 
vibration data  
Table 2  shows the res ults from the training of a two -class neural network  for both the gear bearing and gear 
tooth issue using both SCADA data and vibration data  to predict if those failure modes will occur within the 
next month or outside of the next month,  as outlined in Section 2.5 . It can be seen  in Table 2  that the artificial 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
neural network is very successful in  predicting a gear tooth failure in the next mont h using vibration data, 
and successful 72.5% of the time at predicting a gear bearing issue in t he next month using SCADA data.  
The number of correct predictions  start to increase  slightly  for the gear tooth issue when using SCAD A data.  
The gear bearing failure predictions based on vibration data show the lowest number of correct predictions. 
As dis cussed in sub -section 3.2, the  bearing issue is located in the planetary stage of the gearbox where there 
is a lot of noise around the ball passi ng frequencies . Feature extraction on the planetary stage vibration data  
is an area of further work for the a uthors and it is hoped improvemen t will lead to a higher number of correct 
predictions from the artificial neural network.    
Fault  Result  Based on SCADA Data  Based on Vibration Data  
 
Gear Bearing  Correct Prediction  72.5 % 63% 
Missed Failure  20% 13% 
False  Positive  7.5% 25% 
 
Gear Tooth  Correct Prediction  75%  100%  
Missed Failure  13%  0% 
False Positive  12%  0% 
Table 2 : Results of two -class neural network predictions for SCADA and vibration data  
3.5 Data groupings  
When training the machine learning alg orithm for the gear bearing issue  in Section  3.3, SCADA data from 1 
month , 2 months, 3 months, 6 months  before failure , and healthy (greater than 1  year) were used. However,  
when testing the algorithm only data from less than one month  before failure and greater than 1 year before 
failure  (Healthy)  were used. To further test the algorithm , SCADA  data from two months before failure, 3 
months before failure and 6 months before failure were also used to determine the algorithms ability to 
correctly predict failures.  As seen in Table 3  there are four category columns and four  score columns. Each 
category column heading indicates the data grouping for training the artificial neural network. For example, 
“1 Month vs Healthy” means the algorithm was trained with only those two data groupings , whereas  “1 
Month vs 2 Months to Healthy” means the algorithm was trained with 1 month to failure data  as the first 
class  and then the combination of the data from 2 months, 3 months, six months and 1 year before failure 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
grouped as  the second  “healthy ” class . Unbalanced data means the number of training samples in the 
“healthy ” section out -weigh  the number of “1 Month” before failure samples . “Balanced” means the number 
of training samples in both classes are equal.  Each row then pr ovides the percentage of correct predictions, 
missed failures  of false positives when tested with data from 1 month before failure, 2 months before failure, 
3 months before failure, 6 months before failure and  greater than  1 year before failure (Healthy).   
Up to this point in this  paper the algorithms have been trained using the groupin gs highlighted in red in Table 
3 “1 Month vs 2 Months to Healthy”. It can be seen from Table 3  that when the same groupings are used 
with unbalanced data (more “healthy ” examples than 1 month samples) the Neural Network then has a bias 
towards “Healthy Predictions ”. While this leads to a high number of correct predictions when the “Healthy” 
data is tested , it leads to a very high number for missed failures, 79.2% when “1 Mont h” before failure data 
is tested. From the 5 groupings tested the “1 Month vs 2 Month s to Healthy (Balanced Data)”  grouping 
provides the best performance in  terms of maximized correct predictions  and minimized missed failures or 
false positives. Consequently, this grouping has been used throughout this paper.  
1 Month vs 
Healthy  Score  1& 2 Month vs 
Healthy  Score  1 Month vs 2 
Months to 
Healthy (Un  
balance d 
Data)  Score  1 Month vs 2 
Months to 
Healthy 
(Balance d Data)  Score  1 & 2 Month 
vs 3 Months to 
Healthy  Score  
1 Month   1 Month (1-2)  1 Month   1 Month   1 Month  (1&2)   
Correct  65.6% Correct  74.2% Correct  20.8% Correct  72.5% Correct  67.3% 
False Positive  N/A False Positive  N/A False Positive  N/A False Positive  N/A False Positive  N/A 
Missed Failure  34.4% Missed Failure  25.8% Missed Failure  79.2% Missed Failure  27.5% Missed Failure  32.7% 
          
2 Months (H )  2 Months ( 1 -2)  2 Months (H )  2 Months (H)   2 Months 
(1&2)   
Correct  46% Correct  59.4% Correct  100%  Correct  52.4% Correct  39.4% 
False Positive  54% False Positive  N/A False Positive  0% False Positive  47.6% False Positive  N/A 
Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  40.6% Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  60.6% 
          
3 Months (H )  3 Months (H )  3 Months (H )  3 Months (H)   3 Months (H )  
Correct  46% Correct  0% Correct  100%  Correct  59.4% Correct  19.4% 
False Positive  54% False Positive  100% False Positive  0% False Positive  40.6% False Positive  80.6% 
Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A 
          
6 Months (H )  6 Months (H )  6 Months (H )  6 Months (H)   6 Months (H )  
Correct  66.3% Correct  0% Correct  100%  Correct  72.8% Correct  61.4% 
False Positive  33.7% False Positive  100% False Positive  0% False Positive  27.2% False Positive  38.6% 
Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A 
          
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Healthy   Healthy   Healthy   Healthy   Healthy   
Correct  77.5% Correct  14.6% Correct  100%  Correct  75.7% Correct  66.4% 
False Positive  22.5% False Positive  85.4% False Positive  0% False Positive  24.3% False Positive  33.6% 
Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A Missed Failure  N/A 
Table 3 : Results of different data groupings for two class neural netw ork predictions with SCADA data  
 
 
3.6 Input weightings  
The results of the weighting analysis described in Section 2.5 are  shown below  where inputs are ranked in 
order of importance . As expected , the gearbox temperature sensors , and their delta readings, located closest 
to the planetary stage bearing  where the failure occurred , carry the greatest weight in predicting failure. Gear 
oil tempe rature however, is not ranked  highly. This indicates that little or no temperature change  from the 
bearing issue is picked up by the gear oil sensors.  
 
1. Delta Bearing 1 Temp and Nac Temp  
2. Delta Bearing 1 Temp and Amb Temp  
3. Bearing 1 Temp  
4. Delta Bearing 2 Temp and Nac Temp  
5. Delta Bearing 3 Temp and Nac Temp  
6. Delta Bearing 4 Temp and Nac Temp  
7. Delta Bearing 2 Temp and Amb Temp  
8. Bearing 3 Temp  
9. Bearing 2 Temp  
10. Delta Bearing 4 Temp and Amb Temp  
11. Delta Bearing 3 Temp and Amb Temp  
12. Bearing 4 Temp  
13. Delta Bearing 5 Temp and Nac Temp  
14. Delta Bearing 5 Temp and Amb Temp  
  
15. Average Wind Speed  
16. Total Production  
17. Bearing 5 Temp  
18. Delta Gear Oil Temp 1 and Amb Temp  
19. Gear Oil Temp 1  
20. Delta Gear Oil Temp 2 and Nac Temp  
21. Amb Temp Avg  
22. Delta Gear Oil Temp 2 and Amb Temp  
23. Delta Gear Oil Temp 1 and Nacelle Temp  
24. Nac Temp Avg  
25. Gear Oil Temp 2  
26. Delta Gear Oil Temp 2 and Gear Oil temp 1  
27. Rtr RPM Avg  
 
 
The accuracy of the model for the different num ber of i nputs is illustrated in  Figure 11 , the numbers on the 
x-axis match the numbers in the previous ranking . The features are removed one by one starting with the 
least important. Figure 11 shows that the accuracy of the overall predictions drop slowly at first while the 
features of less importance are removed. As the most important 7 or 8 features are removed the graph displays 
a faster incline in prediction accuracy.   
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
Figure 11 : Accuracy of neural network predictions as the number of SCADA data input vary. (Figure created using 
SCADA data from gear bearing issue)  
# of 
Inputs  Correct 
Predictions  # of 
Inputs  Correct 
Predictions  # of 
Inputs  Correct 
Predictions  # of 
Inputs  Correct 
Predictions  
27 72.5 % 26 72% 25 71.8 % 24 71.6 % 
23 71.5 % 22 71.8 % 21 71.4 % 20 71.7 % 
19 71.1 % 18 70.2 % 17 70.2 % 16 71.5 % 
15 69.3 % 14 69.4 % 13 69% 12 69% 
11 69.5 % 10 68.2 % 9 68.2 % 8 68.1 % 
7 67.6 % 6 66.8 % 5 65.8 % 4 64.1 % 
3 61.7 % 2 57.9 % 1 55.2 % 0 0% 
Table 4 : Results of different number of inputs for two class neural network predictions with SCADA data for bearing issue  
3.7 Multi -class artificial neural network prediction  
Table 5  shows the re sults from the training of a multi -class neural network for both the gear bearing and gear 
tooth issue using bo th SCADA and vibration  data to predict if those failure modes will occur within  month  
0-1, 1-2, 2-3 or outside 3 months ( labeled  as healthy) for SCADA data . For vibration data  it was labeled as  
month 1 -2, 5-6 or g reater than 1 year  (labeled as healthy).  The 3 -4 month and 6 -12 month intervals were not 
included in the vibration based models due to a data acquisition and storage issue. The high frequency 
vibration data was greater than 25kHz so with such large amounts of data to be acquired, stored and analy zed 
the authors had to be selective in the months they used. For data reduction purposes the authors sampled the 
data from a time period close to failure (1 -2 months) a healthy point (Over 1 year to failure) and a point in 4045505560657075
0 5 10 15 20 25 30Accuracy (%)
Number of Inputs
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
between (5 -6 months).  Correct pr edictions shown in Table 5  are highli ghted across the diagonal of each  
confusion  matrix.  It can be seen that the  multi -class  neural network is most  successful in predicting a gear  
tooth failure using vibration data . The numb er of correct predictions starts  to drop for the gear bearing issue 
when vibration  data is used because of the failure feature extraction issue in the high frequen cy data as 
detailed in Section 3.2 . For both failure modes the multi -class neural  networks  trained with SCADA data  
struggle t o predict failures  correctly, particularly in months 2 and 3. One reason for this may be that the 10-
minute  averaged  SCADA readin gs have little or no dif ferences in months previous to one  month before 
failure. For example, the failure issue may not show itself in the 10-minute  averaged data  so clearly  until 
roughly 1 month before failure.     
Fault  Based on SCADA Data  Based on Vibration Data  
 
 
 
 
Gear Bearing   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gear Tooth  
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 5 : Results of multi -class class neural network predictions for SCADA and Vibration data  
4. Conclusion  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
This section will conclude each  of the sub -sections outlined in  Results  and Discussion, Section 3 . 
 
This work found that trends in 10 -minute SCADA oil or bearing temperature data showed no indication  of 
failure when consi dered alone. Th rough analysis of  thousands of wind turbines  with hundreds of  gearbox 
tooth or bearing failures  it was shown  that temperatures could be lower in the month  before failure than over 
a year before failure depending on a turbine ’s power production in that period. Consequently, it was 
concluded that rather than simple temperature trending in isolation, algorithms that consider a larger number 
of SCADA data input s such as power pr oduction, gen erator  RPM, rotor RPM, bearing temperature and  so on 
were required to correctly predict failure and remaining useful life.   
Through analysis of gearbox vibration data in the build up to gearbox failure related to gear tooth issue s this 
work showed that trends (side bands around gear meshing frequencies) could be clearly seen in the data, six 
to seven months before failure occurred. While trends could be seen for gear tooth issues, to date, this work 
did not discover trends in  the vibration data in the build up to gearbox planetary stage  bearing  issues.  
In this paper, three  machine learning algorithms were trained and tested to determine which provided the 
most correct predictions and lowest missed failures/false positives whe n trained with SCADA data in the 
build up to gea rbox bearing failures. This paper  found that a n artificial neural network out performed both 
support vector machines  (with a linear kernel)  and logistic regression  for the above purpose . 
A two class neural ne twork  was trained and tested  using both SCADA data and vibration data  for failure 
prediction of a planetary gear bearing and an intermediate stage gear tooth. Results showed that a  neural 
network is the most  successful in predicting a n intermediate  gear tooth failure  using vibration data, this is  
followed by predicting the same gear tooth  issue  using SCADA data. It can  be concluded that the use of 
vibration data provides the most correct predictions when clear features can be extracted from the spectrum 
(as in the gear tooth issue in this paper). In this paper a lower number of correct failure predictions were seen 
for the gear bearing issue based on vibration data because of the lack of clear feature extraction from the 
spectrum.   
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
When training two clas s neural networks based on wind turbine data, a number of  different groupings can be 
used. For a two class prediction this paper found that  the most successful method for  grouping the training 
data is to group  SCADA data that is recorded one month before f ailure  as the first class  and the second class 
is represented by SCADA data that is recorded at points in 2 months, 3 months, 6 mon ths and greater than 1 
year before failure. Both the first class and the second class  mentioned above  should be balanced  in terms of 
the amount of data used to train the algorithm  to ensure the most correct predictions.  
The SCADA d ata input weighting analysis in  this paper showed that the gearbox bearing temperatures, and 
their deltas that are closest to the failing plan etary s tage bearing carry the most weight in predictin g the failure 
out of all of the inputs examined. The gear oil temperatures are less important suggesting this failure mode 
does not influence the gearbox oil in manner that the algorithm identifies as indicati ve of failure.  
Lastly this paper shows  results from the training of a multi -class artificial neural network for both the gear 
bearing and gear tooth issue using bo th SCADA and vibration d ata. This work found that multi -class 
classification was possible for predicting failure and remaining useful life but was  more successful with 
vibration data than  SCADA data.  
5. Acknowledgements  
This work was funded by the E ngineering and Physical Sciences Research Council EP/G037728/1  
6. References  
[1] Bakhshi  R, Sand born P. A Return on Investment Model for the Implementation of New Technologies on 
Wind Turbines IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy 2017  
 
[2] Department of Energy and Climate Change UK. Electricity Generation Costs 2013  
 
[3] Crabtree  C, Zappala  D, Hogg  S. Wind energy: UK experiences and offshore operational challenges Power 
and Energy 2015, Vol. 229(7) 727746 IMechE 2015  
 
[4] Bach -Andersen  M, Rømer -Odgaard  B, Winther  O. Deep learning for automated drivetrain fault detection. 
Wind Energy, 21(1):29 –41, January 2018.  
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
[5] Lau BCP, Ma EWM, Pecht  M. Review of offshore wind turbine failures and fault prognostic methods. In 
Proceedings of the IEEE Prognostics and System Health Management Conference, pages 1 –5, May 2012.  
 
[6] Feng  Y, Qiu Y, Crabtr ee CJ, Long  H, Tavner  PJ. Monitoring wind turbine gearboxes. Wind Energy, 
16(5):728 –740, 2013.  
 
[7] Qiao  W, Lu D. A survey on wind turbine condition monitoring and fault diagnosis — Part I: Components 
and subsystems. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electro nics, 62(10):6536 –6545, Oct 2015.  
 
[8] Qiao  W, Lu D. A survey on wind turbine condition monitoring and fault diagnosis — Part II: Signals and 
signal processing methods. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 62(10):6546 –6557, October 2015.  
 
[9] Qiao  W, Zhang  P, Chow  MY. Condition monitoring, diagnosis, prognosis, and health management for 
wind energy conversion systems. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 62(10):6533 –6535, October 
2015.  
 
[10] Zaher  A, McArthur  S, Infield  D, Patel  Y. Online wind turbine fault detection through automated SCADA 
data analysis. Wind Energy, 12(6):574 –593, September 2009.  
 
[11] Carroll  J, McDonald  A, Dinwoodie  I, McMillan  D, Revie  M, Lazakis  I. Availability, operation and 
maintenance costs of offshore wind turbine s with different drive train configurations. Wind Energy, 
20(2):361 –378, February 2017.  
 
[12] Bangalore  P, Letzgus  S, Karlsson  D, Patriksson  M. An artificial neural network based condition 
monitoring method for wind turbines, with application to the monito ring of the gearbox. Wind Energy, 
20(8):1421 –1438, August 2017.  
 
[13]   Cao M, Qiu Y, Feng  Y, Wang  H, Li D. Study of wind turbine fault diagnosis based on unscented 
Kalman filter and SCADA data. Energies, 9(10):1 –18, 2016.  
 
[14]  Cheng  F, Qu L, Qiao  W. Fau lt prognosis and remaining useful life prediction of wind turbine gearboxes 
using current signal analysis. IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy, 9(1):157 –167, January 2018.  
 
[15] Qian  P, Ma X, Cross  P. Integrated data -driven model -based approach to cond ition monitoring of the 
wind turbine gearbox. IET Renewable Power Generation, 11(9):1177 – 1185, September 2017.  
 
[16] Qiu Y, Chen  L, Feng  Y, Xu Y. An approach of quantifying gear fatigue life for wind turbine gearboxes 
using supervisory control and data acquisition data. Energies, 10(8), 2017.  
 
[17] Qiu Y, Feng  Y, Sun J, Zhang  W, Infield  D. Applying thermophysics for wind turbine drivetrain fault 
diagnosis using scada data. IET Renewable Power Generation, 10(5):661 –668, 2016.  
 
[18] Sadeghi  MH, Raflee  J, Arvani  F, Harifi  A. A fault detection and identification system for gearboxes 
using neural networks. In 2005 International Conference on Neural Networks and Brain, volume 2, pages 
964–969, October 2005.  
 
[19] Strączkiewicz  M, Barszcz  T. Application of arti ficial neural network for damage detection in planetary 
gearbox of wind turbine. Shock and Vibration, 2016:1 –12, 2016.  
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
[20] Wang  L, Zhang  Z, Long  H, Xu J, Liu R. Wind turbine gearbox failure identification with deep neural 
networks. IEEE Transactions on I ndustrial Informatics, 13(3):1360 –1368, June 2017.  
 
[21] Zappal a D, Tavner  PJ, Crabtree  CJ, Sheng  S. Side -band algorithm for automatic wind turbine gearbox 
fault detection and diagnosis. IET Renewable Power Generation, 8(4):380 –389, May 2014.  
 
[22] Zhao  W, Siegel  D, Lee J, Su L. An integrated framework of drivetrain degradation assessment and fault 
localization for offshore wind turbines. International Journal of Prognostics and Health Management, 4:46 –
58, 2013.  
 
[23] Rafiee  J, Arvani  F, Harifi  A, Sadeghi  MH. Intelligent condition monitoring of a gearbox using artificial 
neural network. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing 2006  
 
[24] Tian Z. An artificial neural network method for remaining usful life prediction of equipment subject to 
condition monito ring J Intell. Manuf. 2012  
 
[25] Garcia  M, Sanz Bobi  M, del Pico  J. SIMAP: Intelligent System for Predictive Maintenance Application 
to the Health Condition Monitoring of a Wind Turbine Gearbox Computers in Industry 2016  
 
[26] Gao R, Wang  J, Yan R. Defect Diagnosis in Wind Turbine Gearbox based on Sideband Energy a nd 
Enveloping Spectral Analysis.  NREL Round Robin 2012  
 
[27] Tamilselvan  P, Wang  P, Sheng  S, Twomey  J. A Two -Stage Diagnosis Framework for Wind Turbine 
Gearbox Condition Mon itoring.  NREL Round Rob in 2012  
 
[28] Microsoft Azure. A-Z List of Machine Learning Studio Modules.  Accessed at: 
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en -us/library/azure/dn906033.aspx. Accessed on 10/08/2017  
 
[29] Jena M, Samantaray  S. D ata-mining -based intelligent differential relaying fo r transmission line s 
including UPFC and wind farms.  IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems 2016  
 
[30] Microsoft Azure: Permutation Feature Importance.  Accessed at: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en -
us/library/azure/dn997262.aspx Accessed on 06/08/2017  
 
[31] Satizábal H, Pérez -Uribe  A. Relevance Metrics to Reduce Input Dimensions in Artificial Neural 
Networks. ICANN 2007  
 
[32] Feng  Y, Qiu Y, Crabtree  C, Long  H, Tavner  P.  Use of SCADA and CMS Signals for Failure Detection 
and Di agnosis of Wind Turbine Gearbox.  EWEA 2011  
 
[33] Cheng  F, Wang  J, Qu L, Qiao  W. Rotor -Current -Based Fault Diagnosis for DFIG Wind Turbine 
Drivetrain Gearboxes Using Frequency  Analysis and a Deep Classifier.  IEEE Trans. On Industry 
Applications Vol 54 No.2 April 2018  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
