International Journal of Control and Automation  
Vol. 8, No. 4 (2015), pp. 75-82 
http://dx.doi.org/10.14257/ijca.201 5.8.4.09 
 
 
ISSN: 2005 -4297 IJCA  
Copyright ⓒ 2015 SERSC  Wind Turbines Condition Monitoring and Fault Identification 
using  Acoustic Emission Testing Method  
 
 
Qin Hongwu1, Kong Lingbo2, Zhang Xian3 and Fan Qinyin4 
1College  of Electronic and Information Engineering  
2 College  of Machinery and Vehicle Engineering  
3International Education College , Changchun  University , Changchun, China  
4Graduate  School  of Engineering , Osaka  University,  Osaka, Japan  
hongwuqin @live.cn , fqyyhoo@yahoo.co.jp  
Abstract  
Acoustic Emission (AE) technique can successfully applied for condition mon itoring of 
low speed rotating components such as rolling bearing and gearbox  of Wind Turbines. 
This technique is able to detect very small energy released rates from incipient defect in a 
very early stage. Wide range of signal processing methods  can be app ly for diagnosing 
faults and fatigues in AE spectrums and the changes in wave forms are very significant to 
recognize the failures.  Condition monitoring and Fault identification (CMFI) of wind 
turbine health using automated failure detection algorithms can  improve turbine 
reliability. AE testing is based condition monitoring system uses data already collected at 
the wind turbine controller. It is an effective way to monitor wind turbines for early 
warning of failures and performance issues. CMFI methods are  classified into model -
based and signal -based methods. They can be implemented with or without the use of 
artificial intelligence. The object of this thesis is to design a model -based CMFI scheme 
for WT s, which can be used under normal operation conditions .  
 
Keywords:  AE, WT, CMFI , ARMA , condition monitoring systems , AFC 
 
1. Introduction  
Acoustic Emission (AE) as a technique in the sounds associated with the failure of 
materials was detected.  Acoustic wave is a non -stationary signal which can discover 
elastic stress waves in a failure component, capable of online monitoring, and is very 
sensitive to the fault diagnosis. The Acoustic Emission (AE) technique is very adequate to 
detecting extre mely miner energy release rates . On the basis that a significant ch ange is 
indicative of a developing failure, condition monitoring systems (CMS) comprise 
combinations of sensors and signal processing equipment that provide continuous 
indications of component (and hence wind turbine) condition based on technique AE. 
Condi tion Monitoring and Fault Detection (CMFI) is a topic that becomes increasingly 
important in industrial processes, due to growing demands on operational reliability, 
safety and product quality. The general idea is to use a scheme based on measured process 
data to detect a fault occurrence in a physical process, e.g. a component deterioration, to 
isolate the fault location in the process and to identify the time characteristics of the fault. 
The reliability of a wind turbine can be increased by making the co nstruction more robust. 
However, since enlarging the current design already leads to severe material costs; it is 
certainly not desirable to make even heavier constructions. To make offshore wind 
turbines feasible, a lighter construction must be designed t hat has a higher reliability than 
the current generation of wind turbines. Lighter and stronger materials have to be 
developed to achieve this ambitious goal; a large challenge for materials scientists. 
Another large step forward can be made by control eng ineers: the design of better 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
International Journal of Control and Automation  
Vol. 8, No.4  (2015) 
 
 
76   Copyright ⓒ 2015 SERSC  maintenance schemes for turbine components can lead to cost reduction and higher 
availability of the turbine.  
As is well -known, spectrum of signals sum equals sum of spectra, hence effective 
width of summarized signal spectrum should not increase. However, its distortion is 
considerable. Transfer properties of the acoustic tract are described by frequency response 
function (FRF). Classical method of frequency distortion influence exclusion consists of 
FRF calculation with subseq uent adjustment of received signals spectral characteristics. 
Plane shape objects FRF can be calculated theoretically. Let us do FRF calculations for a 
long road.   The practical use of acoustic emission method for technical diagnosis’s 
purposes presents s ome difficulties. An acoustic signal spreading in object undergoes an 
essential distortions caused by "object -converter" system. These distortions are so 
considerable that to retrieve the true shape of signal i s almost impossible in practice . So 
the proble m of searching correlations between construction’s status variables and signal 
characteristics, and the problem of acoustic signal identification are important today.  
Let's try to prove the necessity of AE signal analysis in broad band. It is well -known 
that material AE is the process of producing elastic waves, provoked by local dynamic 
reconstruction of its structure. It is important to give much attention to cracks formation 
and development as emergency situations and breakdowns at industrial facilities are 
commonly stipulated by formation and further development of cracks in material of the 
survey item. Increased efficiency and reliability of modern industrial equipment with one 
hand, makes it necessary to use him in conditions close to the limit, and, w ith another - 
requires a fairly accurate determination of the stress -strain state in the test facility for 
timely identification of critical situations and prevent the destruction of. Therefore, an 
important challenge is the development of various non -destructive control methods for 
assessing the strength properties of materials in the operation of structures without 
destroying its integrity. The experience of recent decades has shown great potential of the 
method of acoustic emission, which is simple to us e, economical and provides continuous 
monitoring of the growth of latent defects in structures during their construction and 
industrial use.  
Most WT machines are three -blade units comprising the major components illustrated 
in Fig ure1 Driven by the wind, t he blades and rotor transmit energy via the main shaft 
through the gearbox to the generator, the main shaft being supported by the bearings, and 
the gearbox being such that the generator speed is as near as possible to optimal for the 
generation of electri city. Alignment with the direction of the wind is controlled by a yaw 
system and the housing is mounted at the top of a tower.  
Some defects such as leaking and corrosion can be detected by visual inspection; 
discoloration of component surfaces may indicat e slight temperature variations or 
deteriorating condition, and the sound coming from the bearings can al so indicate 
physical condition . However, many of the most typical failures like cracking and 
roughness on the surfaces of the blades, electric short ci rcuits in the generator, and 
overheating of the gearbox all demand a more sophisticated approach to maintenance.  
 
Figure 1. Main Parts of a Turbine (Source: [1 -7]) Showing (1) Blades, (2) 
Rotor, (3) Gearbox,(4) G enerato r, (5) Bearings, (6) Yaw System and (7) T ower  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
International Journal of Control and Automation  
Vol. 8, No.4  (2015) 
 
 
Copyright ⓒ 2015 SERSC   77 2. Experimental Data  
We carried out experiments which have demonstrated that applying acoustic emission 
parameters based on impulses reading  for quantitative acoustic emission description 
principles invariably results in low researches results pr ecision. Such situation in 
measurements may occur in the presence of not excluded systematic inaccuracies and 
bear the evidence of incorrectness of such measurements due to improper choice of 
physical units characterizing acoustic emission properties. If t o compare main acoustic 
emission measurement units with the International System of units, it can be seen that 
generally accepted acoustic units are almost never used for acoustic emission description. 
Upon switching to International System of units there was some regulation in values and 
units usage characterizing ionizing radiation and its field, and that increased measurement 
results reliability. Unfortunately, that did not happen in the sphere of acoustic emission. 
All existing normative documents start ing from GOST 2763 -83 and ending with rather 
up-to-date RD 03 -131-97 and RD 03 -299-99 recommend using parameters based on 
impulses counting.  
We are bound to analyze only the part of a collective process which appears to be 
above the equipment sensitivity t hreshold. This fact gives rise to multiple speculations 
and scientific fantasies. Mostly we can only see the tip of an iceberg and the rest data is 
left behind -the-scenes, under sensitivity threshold. As a result, even genuine values of 
such AE signal phys ical quantities as pulse height and energy are frequently do not allow 
establishing  any correlations.  We need comprehensive knowledge of process physics to 
evaluate the whole process by available data. It is important to realize that forming of the 
"tip" is indissolubly related to sensibility and frequency characteristic of a converter, 
method and accuracy of converter positioning, AE properties of a material and wave 
characteristics of a survey item, as well as to loading dynamics and structural in 
homoge neity of the material. We also have to take into consideration that AE formation 
process is comprised by several simultaneous processes part of which are auxiliary and 
depend on environmental conditions.  
Currently, a number of methods of modeling of Gauss ian processes, among which the 
most frequently used ARMA -model because of the simplicity of its representation, as this 
model include  a small number of parameters. The essence of this method is applied to the 
original Gaussian signal (noise) some shaping f ilters. ) 
The general form of a discrete stochastic process x ( ) can be described by a 
generalized operator equation  autoregressive - moving average  (ARMA ): 
X(t)=A p-1(B)C q(B)E(t)                                                        (1) 
where A p (B) - the operator of order autoregression, C q (B) - moving average operator 
of order q,  E (t) - a sequence of independent random variables with zero mean and unit 
variance with normal or uniform distribution.  
Notable studies ARMA -model limited to the qualitative s ide of the issue and do not 
deal with virtually influence the statistical characteristics of the current at the input of the 
film-forming white noise on the statistical properties of implementations and evaluation 
of model errors.  
In Figure 2  shows the gra phs of the basic statistical parameters (mathematical 
expectation M dispersion D 2, autoregression (m)) of the random process E (t) with a 
uniform distribution on the interval from -0.5 to 0.5 and a length N = 400.  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
International Journal of Control and Automation  
Vol. 8, No.4  (2015) 
 
 
78   Copyright ⓒ 2015 SERSC  
 
Figure 2 . Statistical C haracteristics  of a Random P rocess  with a Uniform 
Distribution  
 
 
Figure 3. Statistical C haracteristics  of a Random P rocess  with a Normal  
Distribution  
Similar results (analogous results) for the implementation of white noise with a normal 
distribution N [0,
2 ] shown in Fig ure 3  From these results it follows that the first order 
statistical moments are stabilized at N  100 for a process with a uniform distribution and 
with N   50 for a normal distribution process. It should be emphasized that the resu lts 
obtained by averaging over ten realizations of the process.  
Depending on the desired statistical characteristics of stationary measuring signal can 
be described as ARMA -, AR -or MA -process with a finite number of defining parameters. 
Most often used in technical applications AP -model random processes not over the 
second order.  
For some applications an important parameter of the measurement signal is the 
spectral characteristic. The spectral density of the ARMA process defined by the 
expression:  
22(1 cos ) ( sin )
11 2 ()
22(1 cos ) ( sin )
11qq
c i c iiiiiSARMA t pp
d k d kkkkk





                          (2) 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
International Journal of Control and Automation  
Vol. 8, No.4  (2015) 
 
 
Copyright ⓒ 2015 SERSC   79 where c i – i-th coefficient of the moving average, d i – i-th coefficient of 
autoregression, q and p – orders shaping filters and autoregressive moving average, 
respectively.  
From the above formula it follows that  for AR processes shaping filter amplitude - 
frequency characteristic  (AFC )  at 2  = 1 is described by:  
1
2
12
1) sin () cos 1()(
 
   p
kkP
Kk k d k d S   
                            (3) 
In Figure 4 shows the form of changes in AFC of AR (2) process, depending on the 
parameter a 1, at two fixed values of the parameter a 2. 
 
 
 0,9 
 -0,9 
 
1 S() 
  
 
 
 S() 
1 0,9 -0,9 
     
Figure 4. Characteristics  AFC AR (2) Process  for one F ixed Parameter  
To identify opportunities for representation of signals in the form of ARMA -models 
neces sary to determine their inherent uncertainty. Since the most commonly used model 
of white noise, which is formed on the basis of ARMA -process are not smooth spectral 
functions, characterized by significant irregular emissions. Such distortion of the 
spectr um inherited ARMA process and influence the shape of its spectrum. Obviously, for 
the ARMA processes are characterized by errors arising due to the finite size of the 
sample, unsteadiness original finite -dimensional realization of white noise, and also due  
to computational errors.  
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
International Journal of Control and Automation  
Vol. 8, No.4  (2015) 
 
 
80   Copyright ⓒ 2015 SERSC  
 
Figure 2.4 Example  of Theoretical and P ractical  AFC AR (2) Process  and 
the A ppropriate  Representation of  the Relative E rror 
 
In Fig.2.4 shows an example of the theoretical ST ( ) and real -S'() spectra for AR 
(2) process, as we ll as the corresponding relative error (), calculated from the spectral 
region. It should be noted that the actual spectrum was determined by averaging over 10 
realizations of the AR (2) process.  
From these studies suggest that the use of known computati onal models of random 
processes with no averaging simulation results lead to significant errors in the signal 
representation in the spectral domain even for large sample sizes. Thus, the models 
considered random processes have a marked decrease in errors i n sample size N> 128 and 
assessments over the ensemble. For AR processes with sample size N = 128 the number 
of averages should be at least 20 -25, and for N = 512 - no longer than 5 -10. 
 
3. Conclusion  
CMFI  methods are classified into model -based and signal -based methods. They can be 
implemented with or without the use of artificial intelligence. The object of this thesis is 
to design a model -based CMFI scheme for WTs, which can be used under normal 
operation conditions.  It can be concluded, that model -based  CMFI for wind turbine 
systems is an open research field. A feasibility study of model -based CMFI  methods 
might yield interesting new methods, which can be used to monitor the co ndition of the 
components of a WT. 
A study of prior  CMFI  research showed, that  model -based CMFI  has not yet found its 
way to application in the field of wind turbine engineering. A short description was given 
of existing CMFI  schemes for monitoring the condition of various turbine components: 
rotor blades, drive train, gear box and generator. Only signal -based methods were 
described in literature, as well as methods based on artificial intelligence. Moreover, most 
of these methods use additional sensors and actuators, or can only be applied under 
special measurement conditions.  
Concl usions made are fortified by performed theoretical and experimental analysis of 
AE signal spectrum properties . Taking into consideration all above mentioned I think that:  
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
International Journal of Control and Automation  
Vol. 8, No.4  (2015) 
 
 
Copyright ⓒ 2015 SERSC   81 1. Because the spectrum of the input signal is strongly dependent on the propagation 
conditions in the test object, before measuring CX AE signals is necessary to evaluate 
AFC of the system "sample - receiving transducer."  
2. The spectral characteristics of AE signals should use broadband transducers with the 
rise in the AFC side of the treble t o compensate for AFC of the sample, and partly of the 
signal spectrum, which will reduce the measurement error of the absolute values.  
3. If conditions allow the problem, it is preferable to restrict relative measurements of the 
spectral characteristics of th e signals AE, which will reduce the measurement error.  
 
Acknowledgement  
The work was supported by Jilin Provincial Science and Technology Department (No. 
20140414025GH).  The research activities have been funded by Changchun Science and 
Technology (No. 13GH 15). The research activities also have been funded by Jilin 
Provincial Education Department (No. 2014290).  
 
References  
[1] M. R. Gorman , “Plate wave acoustic emission ”, JASA,  vol. 90, no. 1, (1991 ), pp. 358-364. 
[2] H. V. Ravindra, “ Some aspects of acoustic emission signal processing ”, Journal of  Materials Processing 
Technology , vol. 109, (2001) , pp. 242-247.  
[3] A. Terchi , Y. H. J. Au, “Acoustic emission signal processing ”, Measurement and Control , vol. 4, no. 8, 
(2001 ), pp. 240-244 
[4] B. Tomasz and Z. Dariusz, “ Application of wavelet analysis to acoustic emission pulses  generated by 
partial discharges ”, IEEE Transactions on dielectrics and electrical  insulation , vol. 11, no. 3, (2004 ), pp. 
433-449. 
[5] E. P. Scrrano and M. A. Fabio, “ Application of the wavelet transform to acoustic  emission signals 
processing ”, IEEE Transaction on signal processing , vol. 44, no. 5, (1996 ), pp. 1270 -1275 .  
[6] K. Ono, Q. X. Huang, “ Pattern recognition analysis of acoustic emission signals ”, Progress in Acoustic 
Emission  Ⅶ, The Japanese Society for NDI,  (1994) , pp. 69-78. 
[7] R. M. Belchamber, “ Evaluation of pattern recognition analysis of emission from  stressed polymers and 
composites ”, J. Acoustic Emission , vol. 4, no. 4, (1985 ), pp. 71-84. 
[8] C. R. L.  Murthy, “ Application of p attern recognition concepts to acoustic emission  signals analysis ”, J. 
Acoustic Emission , vol. 6, no. 1, (1987 ), pp. 19-28. 
[9] Y. Ding, R. L. Reuben and J. A. Steel, “ A new waveform method for analysis for  estimating AE wave 
arrival times using wavelet decomp osition ”, NDT&E  International,  vol. 37, no. 4, (2004 ), pp. 279-290. 
[10] M. Surgeon, C. Buelens and M. Wevers, “ Waveform based analysis techniques for the reliable acoustic 
emission testing of composite structures ”, Journal of Acoustic Emission , vol. 18-19, (2001), pp. 34-40. 
[11] Q. F. Lu , “Model of stator inter -turn short circuit fault in doubly -fed induction generators for wind 
turbine ”, Proceedings of IEEE PESC, (2004 ); Aachen ; Germany . 
[12] L. M . Popa, “Condition monitoring of wind generators ”, Proceedings of IEEE IA S, (2003 ); Salt Lake 
City, USA . 
[13] S. G. M. Krämer, “Fiber optic sensor network for lightning impact localization and classification in wind 
turbines ”, Proceedings of IEEE ICMFIIS, (2006 ); Heidelberg ; Germany.  
[14] M. E. H. Benbouzid, “A review of induction motors signature analysis as a medium for faults detection ”, 
IEEE Trans. Industrial Electronics, vol. 47, n o. 5, (2000 ), pp. 984 –993.  
[15] D. Casadei , “Experimental fault characterization of doubly fed induction machines fo r wind power 
generation ”, Proceedings of IEEE SPEEDAM, (2006 ); Taormina , Italy.  
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
International Journal of Control and Automation  
Vol. 8, No.4  (2015) 
 
 
82   Copyright ⓒ 2015 SERSC   
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
