University of Huddersfield Repository
Elforjani, Badradin, Xu, Yuandong, Brethee, Khaldoon F., Wu, Zhifei, Gu, Fengshou and Ball, 
Andrew
Monitoring Gearbox Using a Wireless Temperature Node Powered by Thermal Energy Harvesting 
Module
Original Citation
Elforjani, Badradin, Xu, Yuandong, Brethee, Khaldoon F., Wu, Zhifei, Gu, Fengshou and Ball, 
Andrew (2017) Monitoring Gearbox Using a Wireless Temperature Node Powered by Thermal 
Energy Harvesting Module. Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Automation & 
Computing, (University of Huddersfield, 7-8 September 2017). ISSN 9780701702601 
This version is available at http://eprints.hud.ac.uk/id/eprint/33650/
The University Repository is a digital collection of the research output of the
University, available on Open Access. Copyright and Moral Rights for the items
on this site are retained by the individual author and/or other copyright owners.
Users may access full items free of charge; copies of full text items generally
can be reproduced, displayed or performed and given to third parties in any
format or medium for personal research or study, educational or not-for-profit
purposes without prior permission or charge, provided:
•The authors, title and full bibliographic details is credited in any copy;
•A hyperlink and/or URL is included for the original metadata page; and
•The content is not changed in any way.
For more information, including our policy and submission procedure, please
contact the Repository Team at: E.mailbox@hud.ac.uk.
http://eprints.hud.ac.uk/

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Monitoring Gearbox Using a Wireless 
Temperature Node Powered by Thermal Energy 
Harvesting Module  
Badradin Elforjani1, Yuandong Xu1, Khaldoon Brethee1, Zhifei Wu2, Fengshou Gu1,2 and Andrew Ball1 
1Centre of Efficiency and Performance Engineering, University of Huddersfield, Queensgate, Huddersfield HD1 3DH, UK  
2School of mechanical E ngineering Taiyuan University of technology, Taiyuan, China  
E-mail: Badradin.Elforjani@hud.ac.uk  
 
Abstract—Condition monitoring  (CM) of gearbox is a 
crucial activity due to its importance in power transmission 
for many industrial applications . Monitoring temperature is 
an effective mean to collect useful information about the 
healthy conditions of the gearbox. This study investigates  
the use of a novel wireless temperature node to monitor and 
diagnose different faults on a gearbox transmission system 
under different condition s. The wireless temperature node 
was fabricated with a novel feature that it is supplied by a 
thermoelectric gene rator module  mounted on the gearbox 
house to be monitored so that the measurement system 
avoids  the shortage of using a wired power sources or the 
requirement for recharging or changing batteries. 
Moreover, the temperatures from lubricating oils and 
housin g are modelled empirically to implement a model 
based detection. The results show that this monitoring 
approach allows a number of common  fault s: tooth 
breakage, oil shortage, and shaft misalignment to be 
separated under different load s, which demonstrates  the 
outstanding performance of the proposed system  and thus 
suitable for  online and automated condition monitoring.  
Keywords -gearbox ; condition monitoring; temperature; 
fault diagnosis . 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Maintenance has become increasingly important to the 
industrial automated manufacturing process. Meanwhile, 
the investment on maintenance has grown quickly with 
the increasing the complexity of machine  system s. 
Appropriate use of  CM can be applied  for detecting faults 
at an early stage, reduce g ear repair and maintenance cost . 
Therefore,  to improve upon the monitorin g techniques and 
analysis tools, there have been  constant improvement 
methods for finding the gear  conditions. In which,  a wide 
range of techniques  have been applied to diagnose gear 
faults.  
Temperature monitoring is one of the most commonly 
and extremely known monitoring techniques used in the 
industry machines. It is widely used for  monitoring 
mechanical and electric machine. It can provide  useful 
information for monitori ng the condition of the  machine  
components. Monitoring of gearbox is crucial  activity due 
to its importance in power transmission in different  
industrial application systems. Any defect in gear lead to 
machine downtime and resulting in a loss of production  
[1]. The maintenance cost of the gearbox is very high as 
compared with the other failure rate components such as electric system and hydraulic system. With the rotating 
speed and load of different stages of gearbox change from 
time to time, bringing great challenges to the CM of 
gearbox  [1-3]. Cost performance is another  factor that 
should be taken in to account of gearbox condition 
monitoring. Comprehensive introduction and analyses of 
condition monitoring methods f or different components of 
gearbox have been published  recently  [2-4]. 
The temperature is easily measured and important 
indicators for the health of many machine  component s 
such as gearbox and is often recorded automatically using 
data acquisition system [5, 6] . An unexpected increase in 
component temperature may indicate an overload, poor 
lubrication or possibly ineffective passive or active 
cooling.  Reference [5] used temperature trend analysis to 
monitor the gearbox’s op erating conditions. The Auto 
Associative  Kernel Regression (AAKR) method is used to 
model the normal behavio ur of gearbox temperature and 
give temperature estimates. When the gearbox has an 
incipient failure, the temperature residual between the 
AAKR model  estimate and real measurement will become 
significant.  With moving window residual statistics, these 
incipient failures can be detected in a timely way. In [7], a 
neural netwo rk used to construct the normal operating 
temperature models of gearbox and generator based on 
SCADA data. When the residual between the model 
prediction and the measured value becomes very large, a 
potential fault is identified. Multi -agent methods can be  
used to combine the CM results of different components. 
In [8] the authors proposed a method using a Multiple 
Layer Perception (MLP) to build a temperature model of 
the gearbox. When the measured temperature value 
increases and is outside the confidence range of the value, 
a fault is registered. [9] In this paper, proposed a 
temperature trend analysis method based on the nonline ar 
state estimate technique (NS ET). At the outset, NSET is 
used to construct the normal operating model for the wind 
turbine generator temper ature and then at each time step 
the model is used to predict the generator temperature. 
The time series of residuals between the real measured 
temperature and the estimate is smoothed using a moving 
average window in order to reduce the sensitivity of the  
method to isolated model errors, thereby improving its 
robustness. When the generator has a potential fault, the 
time evolution and the distribution of temperature 
residuals will be different from that for normal operation .  
Univers ity of Huddersfield  Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference  on 
Automation & Comput ing, University  of Huddersfield , 
Huddersfield , UK, 7-8 September 20 17 
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Thermoelectric generators (TEG s) are solid state 
devices , which mean that they have no moving parts, 
produce no noise and involve no harmful agents. TEGs 
are the most widely adopted devices for waste heat 
recovery. The ability to generate electrical power from a 
temperature difference across a materi al is due to the 
Seebeck effect  [10-13]. Many applications have been used 
with TEGs such as structural health monitoring 
applications [14, 15] . The TEG have been also used for 
energy harvesting in structural health monitoring areas 
[16]. 
Wireless sensor networks (WSN) becomes  an adopted  
method  for many applications including complicated 
tasks. However, the WSN has removed the long 
communication cables of the measurement system, the 
wireless sensor node still needs dedicated power line or 
regul ar charging -replacing the batteries [13, 17] , which 
induces additional works to field engineers and is a major 
shortage of using WSN for CM. In recent years, energy 
harvesting offers an effectiv e solution to this problem due 
to its inherent advantages, such as low cost and easy 
deployment.  Many kinds of wireless transmission 
technology have already been used such as ZigBee, 
Bluetooth and ANT. Bluetooth V4.0 is the most recent 
version of Bluetooth  wireless technology. Bluetooth Low 
Energy (BLE) has been designed as a low power solution 
for control and monitoring applications [18]. 
In this study, a wireless temperature node has been 
applied to monitor and di agnose different faults on a 
gearbox transmission system under different condition s. In 
which, t he wireless temperature node was supplied using a 
wired power sources without needing  for charging  
problems.  
II. TEST FACILITY AND MED HOD 
An experimental  test rig  shown in F igure 1  was 
employed in this study. The test rig component s consist of 
a 15 kW, 3 phases induction motor as the prime driver, 
two back -to-back two stage helical gearboxes for coupling 
the AC motor with a load DC generator using flexible 
spider r ubber couplings. The transmission power of each 
gearbox is 13 kW  with a transmission ratio of 3.678 . The 
first gearbox (GB1) operates as a speed reducer while the 
other (GB2) is a speed increaser. In this way, the system 
maintains sufficient speed at the D C to produce an 
adequate load on the AC motor  [19-21]. 
 
Figure 1.  Test rig  construction  
A. Wireless Temperature Node  
To measure gearbox temperature , an integrated 
wireless sensor node  named Sensor Tag is employed. As 
shown in Fig ure 2 , this compact sensor node integrates 10 low-power MEMS sensors and a two core BLE 
microcontroller CC2650 [22]. Two temperature sensors 
are availab le on the node with one for measuring object 
temperature and the other one for ambient temperature. 
Another benefit of this module is that its programs are 
open source, which enables to customize the data 
acquisition and embed intelligent signal processing  
algorithms on it .  
The sensor Tag is specially designed for low power 
consumption applications and can be supplied by  a coin 
battery [22]. Here, the coin battery is not used; instead the 
sensor tag  is powered by the energy harvested from waste 
heat in order to avoid the inconvenience of changing the 
batteries during the lifetime of the system . 
 
Figure 2.   Sensor tag CC2650K  
The CC2540 USB evaluation module kit as shown in 
Figure 3 , contains one Bluetooth low  energy USB dongle. 
The dongle can be used to enable Bluetooth low energy on 
our PC. The CC2540 combines an excellent RF 
transceiver with an industry - standard enhanced 8051 
MCU, in system programmable flash memory and 8KB 
RAM. It is selected on the USB be cause it suitable for 
system where very low power consumption is required. It 
also very low power sleep modes are available and low 
cost [23]. It employed to receive data via the Bluetooth 
low energy from the sensor tag . 
 
Figure 3.  USB module  
B. Thermal Energy Harvesting Generator Design  
The thermal design as shown in  Figure 4, which 
consists of: TEG  thermal insulation material, a heat sink, 
and two pieces of thin aluminium  have been chosen, one 
piece to work as a heat collector for hot side, whereas 
another one acts as a heat spreader for cold side, due to the 
large thermal conductivity of aluminium . The design was 
built by using a commercially available TE module 
CP85438 [24]. The TEG is sandwiched between two 
pieces of aluminium . The aluminium  plates have been 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
chosen due to the good thermal conductivity of 
aluminium . Note that, some therma l insulation materials 
are stuffed between the two pieces of aluminium  plates to 
reduce the heat transmission through the air from hot side 
to the cold side. A thermal insulating material, (thermal 
heat sink transfer double side adhesive) which is designed  
to maintain temperature difference between hot and cold 
side of TEG, also another insulation material which is 
designed to surround the TEG module, which has been 
worked in the thermal design to isolate the heat source 
from the heat sink because the heat source is close to the 
heat sink that is reduce the heat transfer capability of the 
heat sink . 
Heat sink plays an important role in the thermal energy 
harvester to maintain a temperature difference by radiating 
the heat on the code side of the TEG module e fficiently to 
the surrounding air. Here a medium size heat sink with 
thermal resistance of 1.5 °C /W has been used.  
 
Figure 4.  The TEG module  
The voltage output of the TEG module are usually 
very small, with only about several mW to a few hundreds 
of mW depending on the temperature difference on its two 
side. Such a small voltage cannot be directly used for 
either charging or powering the sensor  node. Therefore, a 
DC-DC converter is usually added at its output for 
boosting the low voltage to a higher one. Here, an 
integrated DC -DC boost converter LTC3108  [25] has 
been employed. It can boost an input voltage ranging from 
20mV to 500mV to an adjustable one from 2.35V to 5V. 
Simple in design and low in cost, the circuit can boost the 
small voltage from the TEG in a convenient way.  The 
output voltage is fixed at 3.3V for directly powering up 
the sensor node. A super capacitor with a capacity  of 0.22 
F is employed for storing extra energy harvested. It is used 
when there is no energy harvesting or if it is not sufficie nt 
for the continuous node operation . 
C. Test Precedure  
The test rig was operated at a fixed speed of 1470 rpm, 
100% of the rated speed of AC motor , under four 
incremental load settings: 0%, 30%, 70% and 100% of the 
full DC load. Th e aim is to  investigat e the detection 
process under constant speed and variable load operation s, 
which are common scenarios in real applications.  Each 
load setting operated for a period of five minutes and was 
automatically changed to the next step by the PLC 
controller. In tota l, for all loads cycle lasted 20 minute and 
was repeated tw ice as depicted in Fig ure 5. Three different faults have been  studied, i.e. tooth 
breakage, oil level reduction (600ml less than the 
specification) and 0.13 mm shaft misalignment between 
the gearbo x and the driving motor. The studies faults 
represent some of the most common faults that occur in 
mechanical transmission systems. Additionally, the 
detection of these faults using temperature analysis. Tests 
performed are to examine the performance of a 
temperature based fault detection scheme and to 
investigate the diagnosis capabilities of the temperature 
analysis . 
5 min5 min5 min5 min
5 min5 min5 min5 min
TimeDC-Motor 
Load (%)
03070100
AC-Motor Speed 
Set: 100% AC-Motor Speed 
Set: 100% 
 
Figure 5.  Test cycle  
III. RESULT AND DISCUSSION  
The experimental  works  have been performed to 
detect different gearbox faults,  tooth breakage, oil level 
and shaft misalignment , in which an algorithm model 
based on data -driven modelling was developed for 
complementing the dynamic  interaction s of g earbox 
transmission temperature.  The gearbox was tested under  
three different defecti ve conditions, in which the 
temperatures of the oil and surface of gearbox have been 
measured simultaneously . 
A. Baseline  
Figure 6 shows the oil temperatures of the gearbox  
measured by t emperature sensor and the housing 
temperature of the gearbox measured usi ng the sensor tag, 
the surface temperature called housing temperature. From 
this figure, it can be seen that the oil temperatures of the 
three cases under normal working conditions vary from 41 
◦C to 46 ◦C. However, housing temperature of the gearbox 
fluctuates between 33 ◦C and 36 ◦C , due to the  effect of  
fan cooler of the AC -motor, which effect the surface 
temperature of the gearbox . The condition of tooth 
breakage has the highest temperature of lubricating oil. 
However, the condition of shaft misalignment (0.13mm) 
has the highest temperature of the recorded housing 
temperature. Furthermore, the condition of oil level 
reduction (600ml less)  has the lowest temperature for  both 
oil and housing temperatures  because of less churning 
losses [26]. 

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
Figure 6.  Comparis on results of surface temperature and oil 
temperature of the gearbox with different conditions  
Figure 7 shows the relationship of the housing 
temperature and oil temperature of gearbox at different 
loads. It can be observed that both temperatures of 
gearbox under tooth breakage and shaft misalignment at 
different loads is higher. However, the relationship  of the 
oil and housing temperatures with less  oil level show the 
lowest temperature behaviour . Based on these 
relationships, an empirical model has been developed 
based on data -driven modelling for complementing the 
dynamic  interaction s of gearbox transmi ssion temperature.  
 
Figure 7.  Results of surface temperature and oil temperature at 
different loads  
In this study, a model has been developed based on 
polynomial fitting of training and predicting temperatures , 
as illustrated in Figure 8 . In implementation,  baseline 
condition was developed within tooth breakage fault to 
define the limitation regime of proper gearbox working 
condition . The developed model is mainly based on data -
driven modelling, which was used to build models for 
complementing the interactio n dynamics of gearbox 
transmission temperature.   
Figure 8.  Data drive model based on gearbox temperature  
An empirical algorithm model  is used to determine the 
relationship between the gearbox oil and housing 
temperatures based on a training data set that represent s 
the gear system  behaviour . The model would be useful in 
solving a practical problem with complex periodic signals 
such as the gearbox faults.  The baseline signal has been 
constructed to define the basis condition for the model.  
This model can be used to m onitor the abnormality 
condition of the gearbox. Fig ure 9 illustrates the 
transmission paths of the heat to the gearbox housing 
during gear meshing process, whereas oil and bearing are 
the main transmission paths of the generated heat to the 
gearbox housin g. The main sources of heat generation are 
the friction induced between the teeth contact surfaces 
during the meshing gears  and the friction due to oil 
viscosity. More transmission loads increase the contact 
friction between the meshing gears, hence the oi l 
temperature increased based on the applied load 
conditions.  Thereby, t hree different conditions have been 
simulated under different operating conditions, to confirm 
the developed model. These faults are mainly related to 
the transmission paths of heat me sh generation.  
Meshing Gears
Friction
contact tooth surfaces
Oil Path
(Convection )Gears -Shaft -Bearing
(Conduction )Transmission 
PathOil Temperature
Housing TemperatureFriction 
Oil Viscosity
Heat Generation
Gearbox 
Housing
 
Figure 9.  Transmission path of gear mesh temperature  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
B. Oil Level Reduction  
Figure  10 depicts the relationships between the oil 
temperature and the housing temperature of the gearbox 
when the oil level was decreased by 600ml. The oil 
temperature and gearbox housing temperature are 
generally increased with increasing load . In which, the 
detection model signal is changed significantly due to the 
shortage in oil condition. This can confirm that some 
changes have been changed  in the transmission paths of 
gear mesh temperature , which can be mainly related to the 
oil transmission path. T he det ection signal is changed 
based on the oil shortage and the detect error model is out 
of baseline range.  
 
Figure 10.   Results of surface temperature at oil level (600ml lees)  
C. Shaft Misalignment  
Figure  11 illustrates the same relation  of the gearbox 
temperature s under  the effect of  shaft misalignment at 
different loads. In which, the conduction path of the gear 
temperature via the bearing is influenced and more heat is 
generated that increase the oil  and the housing 
temperatures. T he detection model signal is changed d ue 
to the shaft misalignment condition  and most of the detect 
signal is out of the limited region.  
 
Figure 11.  Results of surface temperature at shaft misalignment  IV. CONCLUSION  
Modelling the temperatures measured internally and 
externally is effective for the detection of abnormal  
gearbox operations. The model allows an accurate 
description between the internal heat generations due to 
gear friction and oil viscous drags, the heat con viction  
through the oil and the conduction by the shaft -bearing . 
Therefore, any  changes occurring on these aspects can be 
detect by model based approach.  In particular, common 
deteriorations in gear meshing conditions  such as tooth 
breakage, lubricating performance  such as oil shortages  
and installation of the gearbox such as shaft 
misalignments have been demonstrated to be detectable 
using the approach proposed. In addition, t he fabricated 
wireless temperature nodes is reliable and accurate to 
obtain the temperatures without using any cables and 
power supply . These unique features to gether with the 
outstanding performance of fault detection  make  it 
particularly  suitable  for online and automated condition 
monitoring . 
REFERENCES  
[1] Crabtree, C., Y. Feng, and P. Tavner. Detecting incipient 
wind turbine gearbox failure: a signal analysis method for 
on-line condition monitoring. in Proceedings of European 
Wind Energy Conference (EWEC 2010), Warsaw, Poland. 
2010.  
[2] Hameed, Z., et al., Condition monitoring and fault 
detection of wind turbines and related algorithms: A 
review. Re newable and Sustainable energy reviews, 2009. 
13(1): p. 1 -39. 
[3] Amirat, Y., et al., A brief status on condition monitoring 
and fault diagnosis in wind energy conversion systems. 
Renewable and sustainable energy reviews, 2009. 13(9): p. 
2629 -2636.  
[4] Lu, B., et al. A review of recent advances in wind turbine 
condition monitoring and fault diagnosis. in Power 
Electronics and Machines in Wind Applications, 2009. 
PEMWA 2009. IEEE. 2009. IEEE.  
[5] Guo, P. and N. Bai, Wind turbine gearbox condition 
monitoring with AAKR an d moving window statistic 
methods. Energies, 2011. 4(11): p. 2077 -2093.  
[6] Tavner, P., L. Ran, and J. Penman, Condition monitoring 
of rotating electrical machines. Vol. 56. 2008: IET.  
[7] Zaher, A., et al., Online wind turbine fault detection 
through automated SC ADA data analysis. Wind Energy, 
2009. 12(6): p. 574 -593. 
[8] Garcia, M.C., M.A. Sanz -Bobi, and J. del Pico, SIMAP: 
Intelligent System for Predictive Maintenance: Application 
to the health condition monitoring of a windturbine 
gearbox. Computers in Industry, 20 06. 57(6): p. 552 -568. 
[9] Gori, M. and A. Tesi, On the problem of local minima in 
backpropagation. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis 
and Machine Intelligence, 1992. 14(1): p. 76 -86. 
[10] Bottner, H. Thermoelectric micro devices: current state, 
recent developme nts and future aspects for technological 
progress and applications. in Thermoelectrics, 2002. 
Proceedings ICT '02. Twenty -First International 
Conference on. 2002.  
[11] Mastbergen, D. and B. Willson. Generating light from 
stoves using a thermoelectric generator.  in ETHOS 
International Stove Research Conference. 2005.  
[12] Yu, C. and K. Chau, Thermoelectric automotive waste heat 
energy recovery using maximum power point tracking. 
Energy Conversion and Management, 2009. 50(6): p. 
1506 -1512.  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
[13] Xin, L. and Y. Shuang -Hua. Th ermal energy harvesting for 
WSNs. in Systems Man and Cybernetics (SMC), 2010 
IEEE International Conference on. 2010.  
[14] Palacios, R. and M.Z. Li. Electrical properties of 
commercial thermoelectric modules. in Fourth European 
Workshop on Thermoelectrics, ETS. 1998.  
[15] Mastbergen, D., B. Willson, and S. Joshi, Producing light 
from stoves using a thermoelectric generator. 2012.  
[16] Park, G., et al., Energy harvesting for structural health 
monitoring sensor networks. Journal of Infrastructure 
Systems, 2008. 14(1): p. 64 -79. 
[17] Eakburanawat, J. and I. Boonyaroonate, A Thermoelectric 
Battery Charger System with Maximum Power Point 
Tracking Technique. 2006.  
[18] Lin, Z. -M., et al. Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) based 
blood pressure monitoring system. in Intelligent Green 
Building and Sm art Grid (IGBSG), 2014 International 
Conference on. 2014. IEEE.  
[19] Rgeai, M.N., Helical Gearbox fault detection using motor 
current signature, in Engineering and Physical Sciences. 
2007, The University of Manchester  
[20] Wahg, K., Vibration monitoring on electric al machine 
using vold -Kalman filter order Tracking, in The Department of Machanical and Aeronautical. 2008, 
Pretoria: South Africa. p. 17.  
[21] Toliyat, H.A., Electric Machines: Modeling, Condition 
Monitoring, and Fault Diagnosis. 2013, GB: CRC Press 
Inc. 
[22] Instruments, T. Sensor Tag CC2650STK. 
http://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/CC2650_SensorTa
g_User's_Guide  
http://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/CC2650_SensorTa
g_User's_Guide . 
[23] INSTRUMENTS, T. CC2540USB Evaluation Module Kit.  
[24] Chaari, F., et al., Gearbox vibration signal amplitude and 
frequency modulation. Shock and Vibration, 2012. 19(4): 
p. 635-652. 
[25] LTC3108 Ultralow Voltage Step -Up Converter and Power 
Manager, L.T.C. 2010.  
[26] Höhn, B. -R., K. Michaelis, and H. -P. Otto, Influence of 
immersion depth of dip lubricated gears on power loss, 
bulk temperature and scuffing load carrying capacity. 
Intern ational Journal of Mechanics and Materials in 
Design, 2008. 4(2): p. 145 -156. 
 
 
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
