 
Wind Turbine  Gearbox  Temperature  Monitor  Based On  CITDMFPA- WNN  
Baoyi  Wanga, Wuchao Liub, Shaomin Zhangc 
1School of Control and Computer Engineering, North China Electric Power University,  
Baoding, 071003, China 
aemail:wangbaoyi@126.com, bemail:519299582@ qq.com , cemail:zhangshaomin@126.com  
Keywords: gearbox; temperature monitoring; flower pollination algorithm; wavelet neural network  
Abstract . In the gearbox temperature monitoring, in order to improve the predictive accuracy of 
gearbox temperature, we presents a model that improved flower pollination algorithm optimizes 
wavelet neural network (CITDMFPA -WNN) used in gearbox temperature prediction. U se the 
model to predict the temperature of the gearbox, and then get the  gearbox condition by means of the 
analysis of residual temperature, so as to achieve the goal of gearbox online temperature monitoring.  
By introducing chaos sequence and t distribution variation, flower pollination algorithm (FPA) has 
better optimization ability.  Improved FPA is used to optimize the uncertain parameters of wavelet 
neural network that improve s the training speed and precision of wavelet  neural network. 
Experiments show that  the forecast precision  of CITDMFPA -WNN is better than that of 
IPSO -WNN and WNN, and we can find the abnormal temperature of gearbox and achieve the goal 
of real -time online monitoring.  
Introduction 
Gearbox, one of the  key components of wind turbine, because of the bad running environment, has 
a high incidence failure, which  causes the high cost of the wind farm operation and 
maintenance[1].According to statistics, the gearbox fault s account for about 10% of the total, but 
their downtime is more than 50% of the total downtime, so t emperature monitoring of the gear box, 
timely detection of fault symptoms, determine the reasonable maintenance program are of great 
significance  to reduce maintenance costs and improve the reliability of the unit. Haiyu Mao, Guoqi  
Liu, et al[2] use principal component analysis to remove irrelevant attributes  of the operation data of 
wind farm  and then train  the wavelet neural network to get the fault offset vector  groups , so as to 
achieve the p urpose of fault diagnosis. P. Bangalore and L. B. Tjernberg[3] use a lot of data in the 
SCADA system, including alarm and warning information to train the artificial neural network for 
the fault prediction of wind turbine gearbox bearing, and the experiment indicates that the bearing 
fault can be found in advance. However, the [ 2, 3] do not take into account the structure of the 
neural network. W ith the multi dimension data, the convergence rate  of the neural network is slow, 
and it is easy to fall into the  local optimum . Wenxian  Yang , Tavner P J, Crabtree C J, et al[4] set up 
the hardware experimental platform of gearbox and generator, use the w avelet analysis method  to 
analyze t he vibration signal of high speed acquisition, but the result  has a larger diff erence with the 
actual running state of the gearbox. In reality, the acquisition speed of the vibration signal is often 
difficult to meet the needs of high frequency vibration analysis . In this paper, the method of 
temperature trend analysis is used to monitor the condition of the gearbox. Firstly, an improved flower pollination algorithm is proposed to optimize the wavelet neural network method to set up the temperature model of the gearbox, and the temperature of the gearbox is predicted by the model . 
Then get the  gearbox condition  by means of the analysis of residual temperature, so as to achieve 
the goal of gearbox online temperature monitoring. Based on the standard of flower pollination 
algorithm, the chaotic sequence and variation of t distribution ar e introduced to form a kind of 
improved flower pollination algorithm . The improved flower pollination algorithm  is used for  
wavelet neural network parameter optimization, so as to improve the training speed and prediction accuracy of wavelet neural network .
 
4th International Conference on Electrical & Electronics Engineering and Computer Science (ICEEECS 2016)
Copyright © 2016, the Authors. Published by Atlantis Press. 
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/). 
Advances in Computer Science Research, volume 50
812
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
Analysis Of Factors Affecting The Temperature Of The Gearbox Of The Wind Turbine  
In recent years, the SCADA system has been widely used in various wind farms. The main function 
of the system is to collect and record the state data of each component or subsystem of the wind turbine.  Select SCADA system monitoring data of a  wind farm  in Inner Mongolia in 2013, whose 
acquisition time interval is 10min, including recording time, wind speed, active power, reactive power, rotor speed, ambient temperature, gearbox input shaft temperature, gearbox output shaft 
temperature and a total of 47 parameters.  The rated power of the wind turbine is 1.5MW, cut into 
the wind speed is 3m/s, the rated wind speed is 11m/s, the cut out wind speed is 25m/s.
 Taking oil 
temperatur e of the gear for  example,  we use the correlation coefficient method to obtain the main 
factors affecting the gearbox oil temperature . Calculate the correlation coefficient between the 46 
variables in the SCADA system including the oil temperature of the u pper time and the temperature 
of the gearbox oil. Some calculation results are shown in table 1.  
Table 1  The correlation coefficient of gearbox oil temperature and other variables 
wind speed  power of wind turbine  generator speed  environment temperature  
0.6166  0.7002  0.8136  0.1881  
gearbox input shaft 
temperature  gearbox output shaft 
temperature  the oil temperature 
of the upper time   
0.9584  0.9595  0.9758   
Select the correlation coefficients greater than 0.6 variables as the main factors affecting the 
gearbox oil temperature, thus the result is the wind speed ( S), power of wind turbine (P), gearbox 
speed (V), the oil temperature of the upper time (T 0), gear box input shaft temperature (T 1), the 
gearbox output shaft temperature (T 2).  
Design Of Gearbox Tempe rature Prediction Model  
Design Of Temperature Prediction Model Based On Wavelet Neural Network . Wavelet neural 
network (WNN) not only has the local time -frequency characteristics of wavelet transform 
characteristic of the large- scale data but also possesses parallel processing  and self-learning ability  
of neural networks, so it has faster convergence speed and stronger convergence ability. In this 
paper, the 3 layer wavelet neural network is used to predict the oil temperature of the gearbox, and the struct ure is shown in Figure 1. 
 
Fig.1. Structure of wavelet neural network  
Input layer: t he number of nodes in the input layer is related to the input variables . Input 
variables directly affect the accuracy of the prediction results. Therefore, we put the wind  speed ( S), 
power of wind turbine (P), gearbox speed (V), the oil temperature of the upper time (T 0), gear box 
input shaft temperature (T 1), the gearbox output shaft temperature (T 2) as input variables, namely 
X=[X 1, X 2, X 3, X 4, X 5, X 6]=[S, P, V , T 0, T1, T2], and the number of nodes and input variables the 
number of the corresponding. The input of the j node of the wavelet element is as follows.  
  n j X w hm
ii ij j ,..., 2 , 1 ,
1= =∑
=                                                               (1)  
  In the formula, w ij is the connection weights between the input layer node i and the hidden layer 
node j, X i is the i input variable, m is the number of the input layer nodes and n is the number of 
hidden layer nodes.   Hidden layer: compared with Morlet w avelet and DOG wavelet, error of Marr wavelet decreased 
Advances in Computer Science Research, volume 50
813
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
most quickly, and Marr wavelet has the least number of iterations to complete the wavelet neural 
network, so that we use Marr wavelet function as the hidden layer wavelet neuron[5].Marr wavelet is 
defined as follows. 
  +∞< <−∞ − =−t e t tt, ) 1 (32) (2 / 2 4 / 12π φ                                              (2) 
  The output of the first j neuron in the hidden layer is 
  n jab hz
jj j
j ,..., 2 , 1 ), (=−=φ                                                      (3) 
  In the formula, a j and b j are the expansion factor and translation factor of the node of the hidden 
layer in the first j.  
  Output layer: this layer corresponds are the predicted results, that is, the gearbox oil temperature. 
The number of output layer nodes is 1. Network output is as follows. 
  )) exp( 1/(1
1∑
=− + =n
jj jz y ω                                                        (4) 
  In the formula, ω j is the connection weights between the hidden layer node j and the output layer. 
  In the known structure of wavelet neural network, whether the wavelet neural network is suitable 
to solve the problem lies in the selection of parameters in the network or  not, it depends on the 
optimization of the network training algorithm ζ = (w, a, b, ω). Traditional wavelet neural network 
training algorithms are mostly BP algorithm. However, BP algorithm has the disadvantages of slow convergence and easy to fall into l ocal optimum. So it is very important to find a suitable training 
algorithm of wavelet neural network
[6]. 
Parameter Optimization Of Gearbox  Temperature Prediction Model .Flower pollination 
algorithm (FPA) has a few parameters and is easy to adjust, which n ot only has the strong global 
optimization capability of the cuckoo algorithm but also has the ability to balance the global search and local search of the bat algorithm
[7]. Therefore, we use FPA  as the training algorithm of wavelet 
neural network. However, there is a slow convergence rate and it is easy to fall into local optimum 
in the FPA iterative optimization process. So w e make improvements from the following two 
aspects.  
1. Chaotic sequence initialization  
  The chaotic sequence is ergodic, stochastic, regular and so on. Therefore, we use chaotic 
sequence to initialize the population of FPA. Logistic mapping and cubic mapping are the most commonly used chaotic models, but the cubic map has better uniformity than Logistic maps, so we chooses cubic map
[8].Its expression is as follows.  
  ,... 2 , 1 , 0 , 1 ) ( 1 ), ( 3 ) ( 4 ) 1 (3= ≤ ≤ − − = +n n y n y n y n y                                    (5) 
  2. T distribution variation strategy   T distribution was published by William Gore Jose in 1980, which can be controlled by changing the parameter n of the degree of freedom to control the shape of the curve. In order to increase the population diversity and improve the accuracy, we use the t distribution variation strategy
[9]. In 
addition to optimal in vitro, variant strategies like formula (6). 
  ) ( * * 'k t q X X Xi i i+ =                                                          (6) 
  Here, X i’ is the first i pollen individual after variation, X i is the first i pollen individual before 
mutation, t(k) is the current iteration times, k is the parameter of the t distribution, q is the control 
factor, which is expressed as the formula (7). 
  1 ,..., 1 , 0 ,11 − =−− = D kDkq                                                     (7) 
  In the formula, D is the maximum number of iterations of the algorithm, and k is the current 
iteration number.   For the current optimal individual, its solution is closest to the optimal solution, so it should be less variable and the variation strategy is like the formula (8).  
  
) 1 , 0 ( * * ' N q X X Xbest best best + =                                                    (8) 
Advances in Computer Science Research, volume 50
814
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
  In view of the shortcomings of slow convergence and easy to fall into local optimum, we present 
a new flower pollination algorithm based on t distribution variation and chaotic sequence initialization(CITDMFPA), which is described as follows:  
  Step 1: I nitializ e parameters: including the number of population, the population individual 
dimension, the transition probability, the maximum number of iterations, search space, etc;   Step 2: Initialize the population by chaos sequence, calculate the fitness value of each individual, and obtain the optimal fitness value and its corresponding solution;   Step 3: Randomly generate the parameter rand , if rand<p, then do global search, ot herwise do 
local search.  
  Step 4: Calculate the fitness value in Step 3. If the new fitness value is better than the original, replace the current solution and the current fitness value with the new explanation and corresponding fitness value, otherwise keep the current solution and the current fitness value.  
  Step 5: Do t mutation operation following the formula (6) or the formula (8).Calculate the fitness value of variant individuals.    Step 6: Judge whether to meet the end conditions, if meeting, stop the iteration and output 
optimal solution, otherwise, turn to Step 3. 
Design Of Gearbox  Temperature Prediction Algorithm   
After the WNN structure is determined WNN will be trained, and the average mean square error 
(MAPE) is chosen as the precision function. 
∑
=−=n
i ii i
mapeyy y
nf
1' 1                                                          (9) 
Here, n is the sample number, y i is the real value, and y i’ is the predicted value.  
We use CITDMFPA to optimize the parameter of wavelet neural net work, and then use the 
trained WNN to predict the temperature of the key parts of the gearbox. Gearbox temperature prediction algorithm(CITDMFPA - WNN) is as follows:  
Step 1: I nitializ e CITDMFPA parameters.  
Step 2: Input training sample. Use the individual  value of CITDMFPA as the parameter value of 
WNN and output prediction results by prediction model and calculate the fitness value according to formula (9). 
Step 3: According to CITDMFPA, update each individual. Bring the updated individual into the 
wavelet neural network, calculate and update the individual fitness value.  
Step 4: Judge whether to meet the end conditions, if meeting, stop the iteration and output the 
overall optimal solution and obtain the optimal parameters. Otherwise, turn to Step 3. 
Step 5: According to the predicted sample, use the optimal parameters to predict the temperature 
of the gearbox. 
Experiment  And Numerical Analysis  
Experimental Data Set Preprocessing  .Select SCADA system monitoring data of a  wind farm  in 
Inner Mongolia in 2013  and 2014, and the acquisition time interval is 10min . Select the normal 
operation data from April 2013 to March 2014 as the training samples and the training output is the 
gearbox oil temperature. The input data is normalized by the formula (10).  
   
min maxmin'X XX XXi
i−−=                                                            (10) 
   In the formula, X min and X max are the minimum and maximum values of the original data. X i is 
the original data and X i’ is the normalized data.  
Test Results And Analysis Of  CITDFPA- WNN Model . We select 100 normal operating data in 
May 4, 2014 as a test sample, and select IPSO algorithm in the literature [6] optimization WNN 
algorithm, WNN algorithm, CITDMFPA -WNN algorithm for comparison. In order to guara ntee the 
objectivity of the experimental data, the algorithm performs 10 times and the average value is the 
Advances in Computer Science Research, volume 50
815
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
final result. The predicted results are shown in Figure 1 and MAPE is shown in Table 2.  
  As can be seen from Table 2 and Figure 1, CITDMFPA -WNN al gorithm is superior to the WNN 
algorithm which is not optimized, and is better than the IPSO -WNN algorithm.  
Table 2 MAPE comparison of each algorithm 
Prediction Algorithm  CITDMFPA -WNN  IPSO -WNN  WNN  
MAPE  0.0240  0.0318  0.0421  
 
 
Fig. 1 The true value and predicted value of gearbox oil temperature  
Verification Of Gearbox  Temperature Monitoring Method .We select the normal operation 
data (2000 samples) of 15 consecutive days in April 2014 for gearbox oil temperature prediction. 
The residual error of the gearbox  oil temperature is recorded as u c, and the formula is as formula 
(11). 
'y y uc− =                                                                 (11)  
In the formula, y is the gearbox oil temperature measured and y’ is the gearbox oil temperature 
prediction value. 
In this paper, the method of sliding window statistical method is used to analyze the temperature 
residual error to determine the threshold value of the mean and standard deviation of the gearbox. The results are shown in Figure 2. The threshold of gearbox oil temperature under the normal state is as follows.  

=± =
maxmax
S k SE k E
SE                                                              (12) 
In the formula, E max is the maximum value of the m ean value of the residual series. S max is the 
maximum value of standard deviation. k e and k s are real number and can be determined by the field 
operation personnel according to experience. 
 
Fig. 2 Gearbox oil temperature residual, mean 
value and standard deviation 
 
Fig. 3 Gearbox oil temperature monitoring
In the Figure 2, E max=2.15, S max=2.81. So we take k E=2, k S=1.3, then the gearbox oil hydraulic 
failure threshold value is: E= ± 4.30, S=3.65.In order to verify the validity of the model to monitor 
the temperature fault of the gearbox oil, artificial simulation of gear box oil high temperature fault is done. Select May 3, 2014 0 o'clock to 6 o'clock, all of the 576 sets of historical data, and start man-made step cumulative temperature offset 0.02 ℃ from 350th. Oil temperature and the residual 
prediction results of gearbox of fault simulation are shown in Figure 3.   As can be seen from Figure 3, the residual mean value is more than normal threshold at 325. So the distance from the initial point 350  is 325+100- 350=75 and here the width of the sliding window 
Advances in Computer Science Research, volume 50
816
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
is 100. Therefore, in the 425th place, we can find out the abnormal condition of the gearbox oil. At 
this point, the gearbox oil temperature deviation is 75*0.02=1.4℃ . It can be seen that when the  gear 
box because of the fault and the temperature rise, the method can be found in time and send out the alarm, realize the gear box online temperature monitoring. 
Summary  
In this paper,  the WNN is used to set up the temperature model of gearbox with the process 
variables which are closely related to the temperature of the gearbox, and the improved FPA is used 
to optimize the WNN. According to the distribution characteristic of the residual error of the model, 
we uses the sliding window to calculate the variation trend of the residual mean and standard 
deviation in real time in real time, and set the threshold comparison  to get the current operational 
status of the gearbox. Experiments show that  the forecast precision  of CITDMFPA -WNN is better 
than that of IPSO -WNN and WNN, and we can find the abnormal temperature of gearbox and  
achieve the goal of real -time online monitoring.  
Acknowledgement  
In this paper,  the research  was sponsored by the National Natural  Science Foundation of China  
(Project No.  61300040) and Scientific  Research  Project of Hebei  Province (Project No.  Z2012077 ).   
References  
[1] Li Hui, Hu Yaogang, Li Yang, Yang Dong, Liang Yuanyuan, Ouyang Haili, LAN Yongsen. 
Overview of condition monitoring and fault diagnosis for grid- connected high-powe r wind turbine 
unit [J]. Electric power automation equipment, 2016,01:6- 16. 
[2] Liu Guoqi, Mao Haiyu, Zhu Yongfeng, Pu Baoming, et al. Fault Diagnosis of Wind Turbines Based on Wavelet Neural Network [J]. Small and micro computer system, 2015,07:1504-1508. 
[3] P. Bangalore and L. B. Tjernberg, An Artificial Neural Network Approach for Early Fault 
Detection of Gearbox Bearings[J]. IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, March 2015,vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 980-987. 
[4] Yang Wenxian,Tavner P J, Crabtree C J, et al. Cost- effective condition monitoring for wind 
turbines [J] . IEEE Transactions on  Industrial  Electronics,2010, 57(1):263-271. [5] Shu Jian, Guo Kai, Liu Qun, Liu Lin-Lan, Research of Connectivity Parameters in Opportunistic 
Sensor Networks[J/OL], Chinese Journal of Computers,2015, Vo1.38: Online Publishing No.155. [6] Cheng Shengfeng, Yang Lu, Cheng Xiaohua. Application of wavelet neural network with 
improved particle swarm optimization algorithm in power transformer fault diagnosis [J]. Power system protection and control, 2014,19:37-42. 
[7] Xiao Huihui, wan chang Xuan, Duan. Improved novel metaheuristie flower pollination 
algorith m [J]. Computer application research, 2016,01:126-131. 
[8] Zhou Yan, Liu Peiyu, Wang Qianlong, Zhao Jing. Chaos particle swarm optimization algorithm based on adaptive inertia weight [J]. Journal of Shandong University (SCIENCE EDITION), 2012,03:27-32. 
[9] Du Xiaoxin, Zhang Jianfei. Sun Ming.Artificial glowworm swarm optimization algorithm based 
on adaptive t distribution mixed mutation[J].Computer application,2013,07:1922-1925+1972. 
Advances in Computer Science Research, volume 50
817
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
