 
Wind Turbine Gearbox fault early warning based on NEST  
Xiao Yan1, a , Changliang Liu2, b 
1 School of Control and Computer Engineering,North China Electric Power University,Baoding 
071000, China  
2 State Key Laboratory Of Alternate Electrical Power System With Renewable Energy 
Sources(NCEPU),Beijing 102206,China  
a e-mail: stellar1207@126.com, be-mail: changliang_liu@163.c om 
Keywords: F ault early warning; NEST; Grey Relational Analysis ; R esidual characteristic analysis  
Abstract . The condition detection of gearbox is of great significance to improve the operation level 
and reduce the maintenance cost of the wind turbine. Based on the nonlinear state estimation (NSET) 
method, the temperature model of the gear box bearing is set up to estimate the states of gea r box 
and the estimated value of the gearbox bearing temperature is obtained. Having obtain ed the 
residual error of the estimated value and the actual value of the gearbox bearing temperature, the residual distribution characteristics are analyzed by slidi ng window error statistics method. The 
residual distribution characteristic of the model will be changed when the working condition of the gearbox is abnormal, and when the residual mean or standard deviation exceeds the set threshold, the warning is given. 
Introduction 
The gearox is one of the important components of wind turbine, which manufacturing 
technology has been more mature and reliable. Due to frequent alternating load, impact load, and 
the strong coupling among parts, the gearbox composed of gear, bearing and other wearing parts has become wind turbine functional system with the highest failure rate. Therefore, in order to ensure the safe and stable operation of the wind turbine and reduce maintenance expenses, the real-time monitoring of is very necessary.  
[1]used multiple layer neural network algorithm for gear box and generator modeling and  set 
threshold according to the temperature. The he diagnosis result of different parts could be comprehensive analyzed for the fault prediction with Multi -agent methods. At the same time the 
author pointed out that the algorithm accuracy of neural network was affected by many factors, such as network structure, training algorithm selection, object modeling and learning sample. A fault early warning method of wind turbine based on least squares support vector machine (LS -SVM) 
was proposed in[2]. The feasibility of this method was verified with the monitoring data of wind turbine operation.  Although some achievements have been achived by these methods, there ar e 
still some limitations.  
Nonlinear state estimate technique (NSET) was applied to construct the normal operating model 
of the wind tower vibration to analyze the operation state of wind turbine in [3]. Through two validation examples it showed that the NSET modeling method for tower vibration had the merits of simplicity, direct physical interpretation and high accuracy.  
This paper uses a method based on gearbox temperature trend analysis based on the Nonlinear 
State Estimate Technique (NSET) to monitor the condition of the gearbox. 
Nonlinear state estimate technique model constructio n 
Modeling parameters selection  
The key to the NSET algorithm for gearbox temperature modeling is to determine the variable 
set closely related to the temperature e change of the gear box bearing reasonably, that is to 
determine the history  matrix structure and the operating  parameters of the observation vector. 
5th International Conference on Environment, Materials, Chemistry and Power Electronics (EMCPE 2016) 
© 2016. The authors - Published by Atlantis Press
866
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
Through the qualitative analysis of the gear box bearing temperature in[4] and [5], this paper firstly 
selected as much as possible types of the variable factors which affect the output  greatly. Selected model variables were the following nine wind power unit operation parameters: power, wind speed, rotational speed of the generator, wind direction angle, bearing temperature of gearbox, gearbox oil temperature, room temperature, ambient temperature, the generator torque.  
When there are many variables and make them all the inputs of the model, it will obviously 
increase the complexity of the model, calculate the running time and affect model accuracy. So use Grey Relational Analysis (GRA) to solve this problem. After the degree of correlation is obtained, the correlation degree between the comparison sequence and the reference sequence is from large to 
small and the greater the degree of correlation, the more consistent with the changing trend of the 
sequence and reference sequence and the influence of the comparison sequence on the reference sequence is more significant. Through the calculation of GRA, we can deal with a large number of input variables and we can select the variables more comprehensive and extensive rather t han going 
through a special subjective screening, which enhance the adaptability of the model.  
Table .1. The correlation degree between the parameters and the temperature  
parameters  R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R6 R7 R8 
correlation  degree  0.86 0.96 0.57 0.92 0.99 0.97 0.96 0.46 
In the table above, R 1 is grey relational degree of wind power and the gearbox bearing 
temperature, R 2 is grey relational degree of wind speed and the gearbox bearing temperature, R 3 is 
grey relational degree of rotational speed and the gearbox bearing temperature, R 4 is grey relational 
degree of wind angle and the gearbox bearing temperature, R 5 is grey relational degree of tank 
temperatur e of gear box and the gearbox bearing temperature, R 6 is grey relational degree of engine 
room temperature and the gearbox bearing temperature, R 7 is grey relational degree of ambient 
temperature and the gearbox bearing temperature, R 8 is grey relational d egree of real time torque 
and the gearbox bearing temperature. The calculation result shows that the wind speed, wind angle, tank temperature of gearbox, engine room temperature and ambient temperature have a large degree of correlation with gearbox bearing temperature, so we choose them as the NSET model parameter variable.  
NSET model algorithm principle  
Nonlinear state estimation technique (NEST) is a kind of data -driven modeling method proposed 
by singer [J] and at present it has successful applications in nuclear power plant sensor calibration
[6], 
the excitation energy transfer[7], the fault diagnosis[8] . 
There are n correlative variables in variable set of a process or device. At time i, the observation 
of the variables can be written as an observation  vector: 
T
nx x x i X] [ ) (1=                                                         (1) 
The structure of the process memory matrix D is the first step in the NSET modeling. In the 
course of the operation of the process or equipment, under different ope rating conditions (such as 
low load, high load, etc.) to collect m historical observation vectors to form the memory matrix:  
m n n n n m x x xm x x xm x x xm X X X D
×


= =
) ( ) 2 ( ) 1 () ( ) 2 ( ) 1 () ( ) 2 ( ) 1 ()] ( ) 2 ( ) 1 ( [
2 2 21 1 1
  
                                                  (2) 
Each column of the observation vector in the process memory matrix represents a normal 
operating state of the device. With proper selection of the m historical observation vectors, the subset space spanned by the memory matrix D can represent the whole normal working space of the process or device. Therefore,  the construction of the process memorizing matrix is the process of 
learning and memory of the normal operation of the process or equipment. 
The input of the NSET model is a new observation vector Xobs of the process or equipment at a 
certain time and the output of the model is the estimated value Xest of the input vector. For any 
867
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
input observation vector Xobs, NSET generates a m dimension of the weight vector W : 
T
mw w w W] [1=                                                           (3) 
with： 
) ( ) 2 ( ) 1 (2 1 m X w X w X w Xm est + + + =                                          (4) 
Weight is the measure of the similarity between the state estimation and the memory matrix, 
which can be calculated in the following way. The residual of the state estimation matrix and 
observation matrix is ε and seek its minimum value: 
 est obs X X− = ε                                                             (5) 
) min( min DW Xobs− =ε                                                     (6) 
Sum of squa res of residuals:  
2
1 12) ) ( ( min∑ ∑= =− =n
im
j ij j obs D W i X ε                                         (7) 
In order to minimize the residual, we need to obtain the minimum value of ε2. Let the partial 
difference of ε2 with respect to   be zero as follows:  
0 ) ) ( ( 21 12
= − − =∂∂∑ ∑= = ikn
im
j ij j obs
kD D W i Xwε
                                   (8) 
That is： 
∑ ∑ ∑
= = == =m
jjn
jik ij ikn
iobs m k w D D D i X
1 1 1) 1 ( ) ( ) ( 
                                  (9) 
 Lastly we can obtain the weight vector W  as： 
) ( ) (1
obsT TX D D D W⋅ ⋅ ⋅ =−
                                                  (10) 
There is a certain correlation between the state data of most systems, the correlation between the 
data can make the matrix in formula (10) irreversible, which limits the obtain of the weight. On this occasion, euclidean distance is used to reflect the rel ationship between the two vectors in order to 
make the nonlinear state estimation method more intuitive in NSET method, which use similarity based on the similarity principle. Characterize its weight and solve the irreversibility of the matrix caused by the correlation of the data by calculating the degree of similarity between the data states. 
We apply the similarity operator instead of the dot product and (10) can be written as ：  
) ( ) (1
obsT TX D D D W⊗ ⋅ ⊗ =−
                                                (11)  
According to the generalized weights, the relationship between the current state estimation 
matrix and the observation matrix of the system is as follows: 
) ( ) (1
obsT T
est X D D D D X⊗ ⋅ ⊗ ⋅ =−
                                           (12) 
Sliding window residual method 
The mean value of the residual sequence can reflect the change of its size and distribution. By 
using the method of sliding window error statistics, the variation of the residual distribution 
characteristics can be analyzed in real tim e. Choosing the width of the N sliding window reasonably 
can not only reflect the continuous change of the statistical characteristics of the residuals in a timely manner but also eliminate the influence of random factors, which finally improves the reliab ility of the condition monitoring of gear box and reduces the probability of false alarm. 
Temperature residual of gear box bearing is defined as: 
est obs X X− = ε                                                             (13) 
For a certain period of time, the gearbox bearing temperature residual series of NSET model is:  
] [2 1  N GT ε ε ε ε =                                                      (14) 
For the above residual sequence, the sliding window with the width of N is taken to calculate the 
mean value and standard deviation of the continuous N residual in this window: 
868
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
∑==N
i iNX11εε                                                            (15) 
2
11()1N
ci
iSXNεε
== −−∑
                                                         (16) 
The Validation of the Mode l 
The Validation of gearbox Bearing Temperature NSET Model 
The rated power of the wind turbine researched in this paper is 1.5MW, the cut in wind speed is 
3 m/s and the rated wind speed is 10.8 m/s. The wind turbine once recorded 69 operating 
parameters such as the main information time, power, wind speed, generator speed, wind direction, gear box bearing temperature, gear box temperature, engine room temperature, ambient temperature, real-time torque, vibration acceleration on both sides of the engine room, etc. According to the 
second section, this paper selected the following six wind turbine operating parameters as the NSET model variables: wind speed, wind direction angle, gear box bearing temperature, gear box tank temperature, engine room temperature, ambient temperature.  
The running data of the wind turbine in SCADA system is huge, and the data contains the data 
points of the abnormal operation of the unit, which will affect the reliability of the results. When constructing the memory matrix, it is necessary to remove the data from the normal operation of the wind turbine. 
This paper selects appropriate number of data according to a certain time and ensures the 
selected data including wind turbine operation conditions. At the same  time exclude those points 
whose output power is zero or less than zero, whose wind speed is less than  3m/s or whose beyond 
25m/ s, which considered as points under abnormal operating conditions. 
Finally, we select the 2254 sets of data form the SCADA system structure memory matrix D, and 
the 800 sets of data as the test samples of the NSET model. Validation results are shown in figure 1. 
From the Fig 1 we can see that the NSET model of gearbox bearing temperature has a high 
modeling accuracy for the dynamic  characteristics of the gearbox in normal operation, and the 
curve can track the change of gearbox temperature. What's more, the residual is very small that we can accurately get the gear box temperature estimated residual value.  
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800304050607080
Sample sequencetemperature/oC
  
Xest
Xobs
0 200 400 600 800-1-0.500.51
Sample sequenceresidual
 
(a) Estimation result o f the model             (b) Residual distribution  
Fig.1. simulation result of NEST  
Temperature trend estimation of gearbox working abnormal 
In order to test the validity of the above model, the temperature of the gear box bearing is 
increased artificially to simulate the situation of the gearbox bearing temperature rising when the gear box is in trouble. 
To detect the faults of gearbox based on the variation of the residual statistic characteristic, the 
threshold value of the residual mean and the standard deviation should be determined, denoted as Ev and Sv respectively. When the residual statistic characteristic of the model is beyond the threshold value, it can send out the hidden trouble alarm to prompt the operator to pay attention to the running state of the gearbox and take the corresponding treatment measures. 
869
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
In the last section, the results of NSET model validation are used as the health indicators of the 
gear box under normal conditions. In this paper, the sliding window width N=90. Thus, we set th e 
residual mean threshold value Ev=0.098, and the residual standard deviation threshold value 
Sv=0.05. 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700-0.1-0.0500.050.10.150.2  
  
residual mean
standard deviation
 
   
Fig.2.Residual distribution characteristics   
From point 450, a manual drift with step 0.008 is added to the 800 normal operating data 
validating sequence to simulate the fault condition of the gearbox. Simulation of NSET model is shown in Fig3. (a) is a comparison chart of the observation vector and the estimated vector and (b) is he residual between the two vectors.  
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 80035404550556065707580
Sample sequencetemperature/oC
  
Xest
Xobs
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800-1-0.500.511.52
Sample sequenceresidual
 
(a) Estimation result of the model        (b) Residual distribution  
Fig.3. Residual distribution of Simulating sequence after adding manual drift 
Then the residual is processed by the sliding window. Here the sliding window width N is set 90, 
and the statistical properties of model prediction is shown in Fig 4. From Fig.4, we can see that the residual mean and standard deviation begin to increase after the manual drift added from point around 480. The upper limit of the confidence interval beyond the preset mean threshold in the 550st sliding window. It is thus clear that when the gear box has hidden trouble, the temperature variation is abnormal, the dynamic characteristic of the gear box is changed so the input observation vector is deviated from the normal working space that the model c an't construct its exact estimated 
value through the combination of historical observation vectors in the process memory matrix D. 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700-0.100.10.20.30.40.50.6  
  
residual mean
standard deviation
threshold curve1
threshold curve2
 
Fig.4.Residual distribution characteristics after adding manual drift  
 
870
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
Conclusion 
In this paper, the NSET method is used to set up the gearbox bearing temperature prediction 
model by using the SCADA system data of the wind turbine. NSET modeling algorithm is simple 
with clear physical meaning which is very suitable for modeling complex stochastic processes. Grey relational ana lysis is used to overcome the subjectivity when selecting the appropriate variable. 
Then use the sliding window method to analyze the prediction residual of the temperature model of the gearbox bearing, and analyze the variation of the distribution charact eristic of the residual 
distribution, so as to give the indication of the potential fault signal. Simulation results show that the temperature model of the gearbox bearing of the wind turbine based on the NSET method can 
be used to monitor the operation st atus of the gearbox in real time, carry out real -time fault 
diagnosis of the running status of the gearbox and give a warning in advance so as to avoid or 
reduce the damage to the equipment, lower the maintenance costs and improving the safety and economy of the operation of the wind turbine. 
Acknowledgement  
This project was supported by State Key Laboratory of Alternate Electrical Power System with 
Renewable Energy Sources. Thanks a lot . 
References  
[1] ZAHER A,MCARTHURS DJ,INFIELDDG.Online wind turbine fault d etection through 
automated SCADA data analysis[J].WindEnergy,2009,12(6):574-593. 
[2] XU JunLong, LI Zheng. Fault early warning of wind turbine generator based on support vector 
machine[J]. Industrial Control Computer, 2013,08:54-56. [3] GUO Peng, XU Ming, BAI Nan,  et al. Wind Turbine Tower Vibration Modeling and 
Monitoring Driven by SCADA Data[J.] Proceedings of the CSEE, 2013,05:128-135+20..  [4] SUN Jian -ping, ZHU Wen, ZHAI Yong- jie, GE Jian -hong. Wind turbine gearbox prognostic 
simulation research based on MSET meth od[J]. Journal of System Simulation, 2013,12:3009-3014.. 
[5] GUO Peng, DAVID Infield, YANG Xiyun. Wind turbine gearbox condition monitoring using 
temperature trend analysis[J].Proceedings of the CSEE, 2011,32:129-136. [6] Bockhorst F K, Gross K C, Herzog J P, et al. MSET Modeling of Crystal River -3 Venturi Flow 
Meters [C]// Proceedings of International Conference on Nuclear Engineering, USA: IEEE, 1998: 
128-134. 
[7] Jingfang Guo,Yamei Yang,Xiaoli Hu,Yuanfang Li. Spectrofluorimetric analysis of captopril 
based on its obstruction effect of the nanomaterial surface energy transfer between acridine orange 
and gold nanoparticles[J]. Science China(Chemistry),2015,05:885-891. 
[8] REN Mengwei,JIAO Songming.Coal milling system fault diagnosis based on improved 
NEST[J]. Thermal Power Generation, 2015,12:87-92+97.  [9] Peng Guo School of Control and Computer Engineering, North China Electric Power University, 
Beijing 102206. Wind Turbine Generator Bearing Condition Monitoring with NEST Method[A].. [10] SUN Jian -ping, ZHU Wen, ZHAI Yong- jie, GE Jian -hong. Wind Turbine Gearbox Prognostic 
Simulation Research Based on MSET Method[J]. Journal of System Simulation, 
2013,12:3009-3014. 
871
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
