Anomaly Identification of Wind Turbine 
Gearboxes Based on Similarity Theory  
 
Xiao Yang 
School of Energy Power and Mechanical Engineering 
North China Electric Power University 
Baoding, China 
e-mail: 350964520@qq.com Xinli Li 
School of Control and Computer Engineering 
North China Electric Power University 
Baoding, China 
 e-mail: 601279228@qq.com 
Minglei Hou  
Baoding well foundry machinery Co., Ltd. 
Baoding, China 
e-mail: houminglei8888@126.com Xiaoliang Fan 
School of Energy Power and Mechanical Engineering 
North China Electric Power University 
Baoding, China 
e-mail: fxl188@263.net
 
 
Abstract—Wind turbine condition monitoring and fault 
warning has important practical value to reduce 
maintenance costs, improve operational efficiency and 
reliability. In this paper, the characteristic parameters of 
SCADA system monitoring, based on the principle of similarity modeling techniques, through reasonable storage 
matrix construction process, the establishment of the gear 
box "health model" to cover the gearbox to work space. 
When the gearbox opera tion occurs, characterized in health 
parameters deviate from the model, when the offset distance exceeds the threshold value, the system gives the warning. 
Finally, the health model was validated, experiments show 
that the method used in this paper can be found early signs 
of abnormal gearbox and give warning. The results show 
that the health model by the similar principle established can 
identify abnormal state timely and accurately, and warning 
given before a failure occurs, which makes it easier to 
advance plans to organize ma intenance equipment and 
personnel, to provide a reference for on-site maintenance. 
Keywords- gearbox; simila rity theory; Anomaly 
recognition; health m odel; failure warning 
I. INTRODUCTION  
The traditional wind turbines maintenances are 
essentially reactive maintenance ，which can repair the 
fault [1], but cannot play predictable, prevention. With the 
growth of China's wind power installed capacity and the wind turbine running time, the reaction maintenance is no longer able to meet the needs of maintenance now, 
preventive maintenance based on the state is becoming 
more important [2]. Failure prediction technology is based 
on the analysis process to wind turbine condition monitoring data to determine the health of the system before the failure to identify potential trouble sign monitoring system sends alarms to prevent catastrophic failure or an accident, and timely repairs or replaces the unhealthy system. 
Currently prediction method is widely used by the data 
processing algorithms for trend forecasting, which includes forecasting model based on time series analysis, forecasting model based on gray theory, artificial neural network forecasting model [3,4] and so on. Domestic and foreign scholars on the wind turbine condition monitoring, condition assessment and fault diagnosis has been extensively studied [5-7]. [8] The gearbox temperature 
trends were analyzed by statistical gearbox operating state with the model prediction residuals, early detection of 
potential failure of the gearbox. [9] given the options 
Relief method based on the characteristic parameters of the wind turbine pitch system characteristic parameters mining, as well as on the pitch system status more characteristic parameters from the abnormal recognition, a single parameter absolute threshold assessment compared to more timely and accurate identification its abnormal state. 
High costs of wind turbine gearbox, and the event of 
failure, recovery time is longer, therefore, the gearbox early fault detection process is particularly important. This paper uses a similar principle to the proper classification 
and historical data on the fan to the gearbox, for example, 
to establish a healthy model gearbox, by comparing real-time data and health models, and tap abnormal gearbox 
and give fault warning. 
II. 
 WIND TURBINE GEARBOX MONITORING 
PARAMETERS  
In this paper, we take Xinjiang Hami wind 1.5MW 
wind turbine gearbox for example, which is one of the 
main gearbox transmission components, its main function is to force the impeller generated by wind generator and passed to the appropriate speed . 
SCADA system monitoring parameters of the unit up 
to a few dozen, we only an alyzed for wind turbine 
gearboxes, selected nine parameters related to the gearbox run from SCADA system vari ables collected, including 
power generating units, wind speed, rotor speed , ambient 
temperature, engine temperat ure, gear box front bearing 
temperature, bearing temperat ure after the gearbox, gear 
box oil, gearbox oil temperatur e. The contents of each data 
International Conference on Chemical, Material and Food Engineering (CMFE-2015)
© 2015. The authors - Published by Atlantis Press
843
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
SCADA system includes a time stamp, active power, 
reactive power, power generating units, wind speed, rotor speed, ambient temperature, engine temperature, and so dozens of parameters. Meanwhile SCADA system also records the operational status of the unit, such as unit start, stop, gearbox oil pressure , oil temperature and low 
gearbox. Each log includes  time, state ID, status 
descriptions. 
 
III. 
THE PRINCIPLE OF SIMILARITY MODELING  
A. Similarity theory  
Similarity theory studies are more cutting-edge hotspot 
objects in data mining. Between patterns and pattern similarity measure between the sample and the sample, or a pattern of a sample and the sample is called the similarity, which is often used as a measure of the difference between the target scale[10]. To classify the samples during data analysis or data mining, we often need the degree of difference between samples, to judge samples. 
Vector set X = {x1, x2, ..., xn} and the vector Y = {x1, 
x2, ..., xn}, constructor similarity function sim (X, Y), the similarity function sim (X, Y) < ε when (ε is the set of 
similarity threshold), said vector X, Y to ε is bounded in 
similar circumstances, denoted X ≈Y. At the same 
similarity function to meet at three conditions: 
 positive definiteness, sim (x, y) ≥0, if and only if X 
= Y when, sim (x, y) = 0; 
 symmetry, sim (x, y) = sim (y, x) ； 
 satisfy the triangle inequality, sim (a, c) ≤sim (a, b) 
+ sim (b, c). 
Euclidean distance is comm only used in a similar 
principle operator, is a measure of the absolute distance 
between the midpoint of th e multidimensional space, 
reflecting the degree of differe nce between the two phasor, 
the greater the distance the gr eater the difference between 
samples, is a the simplest and most common distance metric. Euclidean distance formula: 
) 1 (i, distn
i2) (x iY X y ） （  
B. Nonlinear state estimation modeling principle  
Nonlinear state estimate technology( NSET) method 
was developed by Singer and put forward a non-parametric modeling approach, the current generation of equipment failure warning, monitoring equipment, electronic products and other aspects of life prediction is widely used in a modeling method. NSET model extraction system through normal point, and then use these points constructed normal operation state space model [11].  
There are n interrelated variables of a device, at time i 
observation vector written as: 
] [2 1) (ni X x x xT 
 
In the period of time the device to work properly, 
assume that there are m obs ervation vector represent 
different working conditions, constitute the process of memory matrix D: 




nm n2 n12m 22 211m 12 11
x x xx x xx x x] ) ( ) 2 ( ) 1 ( [
    M X X X D
 
Wherein each column vector of the matrix represent a 
particular state of normal operation, each row vector 
matrix representative of a time series of observed parameters. Through the rational selection process memory matrix m historical observa tion vector subspace spanned 
(i.e. process memory matrix D) to cover the dynamic range of the observation system uptime parameter. 
Xobs vector system for the observation of a moment, 
NEST model by comparing the current observed state of 
the memory matrix in the process of the m conditions were compared to generate a m-dimensional weight vector W. 
） 2 （ ) ( X ) ( ) 2 ( X ) 2 ( ) 1 ( X ) 1 (est m m W D X            
So Xest vector model for the prediction of outputs. It is a linear combination of m observation vectors. 
The weights are state estima tion similarity measure and 
process the memory matrix between the input and output vectors by NEST models residual minimize strike, as follows: 
) 3 ( W - min - min minobs est obs ） （ ） （    D X X X 
Derivative of the formula number, you can get right to the residual value of the smallest cases: 
) 4 ( ) ( ) (obs1X D D D WT T    
Where  nonlinear operator based on similar principle 
is used in place of the dot product, to characterize the 
degree of similarity calculated by weighting the data between states to solve the ma trix data associated caused 
irreversible. 
When the memory matrix in  the process covered space 
observation vector Xobs when the device is working properly located, and Euclidean distance matrix D is small, 
the corresponding NEST forecas t vector Xest with high 
accuracy. When the device is  abnormal, the observation 
vector will deviate from the normal work space, resulting 
in increased residuals. 
Constitute the entire model is to study the 
characteristics of the equipment operation, using a combination of these modes will be able to produce an estimate of the model. 
Fault warning flowchart NEST model show in Fig. 1
 
 
C. Nonlinear State Estimation Modeling Implementation  
The above describes specific methods based on the 
basic principles of the theory of similarity modeling analysis are combined with sp ecific examples of modeling. 
 Data normalization process 
Due to the observed variable gearbox model different 
dimension, and the absolute value of the difference between the different variable data is large, in order to eliminate the difference in valu e, to ensure the model can 
correctly assess the Euclidea n distance between different 
844
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
observation vector, we need for the selected nine 
measurements characteristic va riables were normalized so 
that the actual measurement values are mapped to [01] 
range. 
 
 
Figure 1.  Warning flowchart model   
 Selection of training data K 
Establish NEST model is based SCADA massive 
historical data as the basis, sample training data K determines the accuracy of the model, so you first need to 
train K data modeling used for screening. The training data used to generate the device model should meet the following requirements [12]: 
a) covers the dynamic process of the system under 
normal operating conditions characteristic monitored parameters, such as a wind  turbine gearbox, the unit 
must contain start and stop the whole process in line with relevant monitoring parameters state; b) data expressed in each wind turbine gearboxes - a 
normal state, the training data K in the state can not contain fault state. 
 The construction process of the memory matrix D 
Process memory matrix D contains m observation 
vector (i.e. the m conditions), to try to override the normal workspace wind turbin e gearboxes. No fault data for Unit 
2 of this article, Xinjiang Hami wind farm 2014/1/1 00:00 to 2014/4/1 00:00 SCADA system to collect gear box training, establish health gearbox model. To establish a healthy model for wind turbine gearboxes, we use Max Min method selected automatically, the data where the value of each observation mode process variables is selected into the memory array. According to this method of wind turbine gearboxes health model is comprised of 300 data samples, on behalf of the fans in the first quarter of 2014, gearbox normal operation. The observation vector for each point was normalized to the distribution in the phase space, consisting of a discrete hyper sphere. Use of equipment healthy period of time to run at all state health facilities period were classified  to form a normal range of 
values for each parameter under different conditions shown in Fig. 3, showing the upper and lower limits of a condition of the individual parameters. 
 
Figure 2.  Some working parameters change range   
As shown above, each data set represents a normal 
condition, and gives the upper and lower limits of the specific conditions of each variable. 
 
IV. G
EARBOX ANOMALY IDENTIFICATION 
VERIFICATION  
In order to verify the validity of the gearbox health 
model established above, is applying the data unit is not running during the same quarter in the test training. Discover The unit 2015 first quarter operating data records found that the crew at 15:12 on February 23, 2015 in time SCADA system displays "alarm _T117_ gearbox temperature is above limi ts" error message. Before 
selecting a fault occurs 15 hours of operating data as verification data model. Verification data into the model by comparing it can be seen from Fig. 4 wind turbine gearboxes monitoring data starts to deviate from the model time at 10:00, 12:27 time in its deviation from the 
Euclidean distance exceeds a set threshold, then the system 
gives warning, (Euclidean distance contribution rate that is 
greater when monitoring data Parameter deviate health model) while viewing the cause  of the alarm as shown in 
Fig. 5, the model gives the contribution rate alarm parameters, you can determine the gearbox oil is continuing to rise, departing from the gearbox health model, given warning before a failure occurs. So we use the gearbox health model established principle of similarity can be given before a failure occurs in anticipation, timely and accura tely identify the abnormal 
state of the gearbox, troubleshooting and engineering applications than the absolute threshold based on a single parameter assessment methods system has a high sensitivity. 
 
845
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
 
Figure 3.  Model deviation warning 
 
Figure 4.  Model parameters deviate contribution rate 
 
V. CONCLUSION  
In this paper, a similar principle, a reasonable choice 
associated with monitoring gear operating parameters 
established gearbox own history based on device operating data "health model", change the system equipment health model will be randomly gro up operating conditions change 
accordingly , closer to the actual operation of the equipment. By extracting the scene of trouble-free operation of the model data to establish the validity of the above verification results show that health model by a similar principle established timely and accurately identify 
abnormal state, warning given before a failure occurs. By early detection of faults, avoid premature failure caused more serious damage fault, easy to advance plans to organize maintenance equipment and maintenance personnel, to provide a reference for on-site maintenance. 
 
R
EFERENCES  
List and number all biblio graphical references in 9-
point Times, single-spaced, at th e end of your paper. When 
referenced in the text, enclose the citation number in square brackets, for example [1]. Where appropriate, include the name(s) of editors of referenced books. The template will number citations consecutively within brackets [1]. The sentence pun ctuation follows the bracket 
[2]. Refer simply to the reference number, as in [3]—do not use “Ref. [3]” or “ref erence [3]” except at the 
beginning of a sentence: “Reference [3] was the first . . .” Number footnotes separately  in superscripts. Place the 
actual footnote at the bottom of the column in which it was cited. Do not put footnotes in the reference list. Use letters for table footnotes. 
Unless there are six authors or more give all authors’ 
names; do not use “et al.”. Papers that have not been published, even if they have been submitted for publication, should be cited as “unpublished” [4]. Papers that have 
been accepted for publication should be cited as “in press” 
[5]. Capitalize only the first word in a paper title, except for proper nouns and element symbols. 
For papers published in translation journals, please 
give the English citation first, followed by the original foreign-language citation [6]. 
 
[1] ZhANG Xiaotian. Research on Fau lt Prediction of Wind Turbine 
Main Components Based on Regression Analysis. North China 
Electric Power University, 2013.  
[2] GU Yujiong, SU Luwe, ZhONG Yang. Online Fault Early 
Warning Method for Wind Turbine Gearbox Based on Operational Condition Division[J]. Electric Power Science and 
Engineering,2014, 30(8): 1-5. 
[3] WANG Xue. The test of intellig ent information processing[M]. 
Tsinghua University press,2008.33-56. 
[4] PENG Yu, LIU Datong, PENG Xiyuan. A review: Prognostics and health management[J]. JOURNAL OF  
[5] 
Arabian-Hoseynabadi H, Orae e H, Tavner P J. Failure 
modes and effects analysis (F MEA) for wind turbines[J]. 
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems, 
2010, 32(7): 817-824 . 
[6] LI Hui, HU Yaogang, TANG Xianhu. A Matter-element 
Assessment Method of a Grid-connected Wind Turbine Driven Generator System Under On-l ine Operating Conditions[J]. 
AUTOMATION OF ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEMS, 2010 (33): 
103-109. 
[7] WANG Ruichuang, LIN Fuhong. Research on on-line monitoring 
and fault diagnosis of wind tu rbine[J]. EAST CHINA ELECTRIC 
POWER, 2009, 37(1): 190-193. 
[8] GUO Peng, YANG Xiyun. Wind Turbine Gearbox Condition Monitoring Using Temperature Tren d Analysis[J]. Proceedings of 
the CSEE, 2011, 31(32): 129-136. 
[9] YANG Chao, LI Xuewei. Conditions  Characteristic Parameters 
Mining and Outlier Identification for Electric Pitch System of Wind Turbine[J]. Proceedings of the CSEE, 2014, 34(12): 1922-
1930. 
[10] Gross K C, Singer R M, Wegerich S W, et al. Application of a model-based fault detection system to nuclear plant 
signals[C]//Proc. 9th Int. Conf. Intelligent Systems Applications to 
Power Systems. 1997: 6-10. 
[11] 
Guo P, Infield D. Wind Turb ine Tower Vibration Modeling 
and Monitoring by the Nonlinear State Estimation 
Technique (NSET)[J]. Energies, 2012, 5(12): 5279-5293.  
[12] CHANG Shuping, GUO Jianglong, LV Yukun. The Application of 
NSET Modeling Method in Failure Prognostic System[J]. 
COMPUTER ENGINEERING & SOFTWARE, 2012, 32(7): 57-
60. 
846
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
