sensors
Review
Vibration Analysis for Fault Detection of Wind T urbine
Drivetrains—A Comprehensive Investigation
Wei Teng1,*
, Xian Ding2, Shiyao Tang3, Jin Xu2, Bingshuai Shi1and Yibing Liu1
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Citation: Teng, W.; Ding, X.; Tang, S.;
Xu, J.; Shi, B.; Liu, Y. Vibration
Analysis for Fault Detection of
Wind Turbine Drivetrains—A
Comprehensive Investigation. Sensors
2021 ,21, 1686. https://doi.org/
10.3390/s21051686
Academic Editor: Yolanda Vidal
Received: 27 January 2021
Accepted: 23 February 2021
Published: 1 March 2021
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).1Key Laboratory of Power Station Energy Transfer Conversion and System,
North China Electric Power University, Ministry of Education, Beijing 102206, China;
bingshuai134@126.com (B.S.); lyb@ncepu.edu.cn (Y.L.)
2China Green Development Investment Group Co. Ltd., Beijing 100020, China; fd_dingxian@163.com (X.D.);
lvfa_yjy@163.com (J.X.)
3China Resources Power Technology Research Institute Company, Shenzhen 518002, China;
tangshiyao3@crpower.com.cn
*Correspondence: tengw@ncepu.edu.cn
Abstract: Vibration analysis is an effective tool for the condition monitoring and fault diagnosis
of wind turbine drivetrains. It enables the defect location of mechanical subassemblies and health
indicator construction for remaining useful life prediction, which is beneﬁcial to reducing the opera-
tion and maintenance costs of wind farms. This paper analyzes the structure features of different
drivetrains of mainstream wind turbines and introduces a vibration data acquisition system. Almost
all the research on the vibration-based diagnosis algorithm for wind turbines in the past decade
is reviewed, with its effects being discussed. Several challenging tasks and their solutions in the
vibration-based fault detection of wind turbine drivetrains are proposed from the perspective of
practicality for wind turbines, including the fault detection of planetary subassemblies in multistage
wind turbine gearboxes, fault feature extraction under nonstationary conditions, fault information
enhancement techniques and health indicator construction. Numerous naturally damaged cases
representing the real operational features of industrial wind turbines are given, with a discussion of
the failure mechanism of defective parts in wind turbine drivetrains as well.
Keywords: wind turbine drivetrain; vibration analysis; fault detection; signal processing; failure
mechanism
1. Introduction
Wind energy has expanded rapidly in the past decade due to its clear and renewable
properties. By the end of 2019, over 650 GW of installed capacity of wind energy had been
put into operation worldwide [ 1]. In China, this capacity is 237 GW [ 1], accompanying
over 100,000 wind turbines erected, among which 80% of the power supply from wind
energy is contributed by doubly fed wind turbines equipped with gearboxes, and 20% is
provided by direct-drive wind turbines without gearboxes.
Suffering from harsh environments, e.g., stochastic wind, large temperature difference
and alternating load, mechanical parts (gears and bearings) of drivetrains in industrial wind
turbines are prone to failure [ 2–4]. Although their failure rate is lower than electrical parts [ 4,5],
mechanical faults of wind turbines may cause longer downtime, more expensive transporta-
tion and hoisting fees, and even adverse social influence. Therefore, studies on the mechanical
fault detection of wind turbines attract increasing attention with the aim of scheduling reason-
able operation and maintenance plans, or avoiding catastrophic results. Various monitoring
techniques have been developed to support defect detection in wind turbine drivetrains, in-
volving debris analysis [ 6], acoustic emission [ 7,8], oil analysis [ 9,10], electrical signal [ 11–13],
angular velocity measurement [14] and vibration analysis [13,15–19].
Using the method of vibration analysis, vibration data collected from transducers
are analyzed by signal processing approaches; thus, potential mechanical faults can be
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686. https://doi.org/10.3390/s21051686 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 2 of 33
detected accurately. This is the most popular condition monitoring and fault diagnosis
technique employed in wind turbines, especially for rotating parts, e.g., gearbox and
bearings. It performs superiorly to other monitoring techniques in fault location and
hardware cost. To date, the vibration-based condition monitoring system has been a
standard conﬁguration in wind turbines, which provides a convenient way to acquire
vibration data and provide proper diagnosis results. Nevertheless, vibration analysis for
the fault diagnosis of mechanical components in wind turbines is an arduous task due to
the complex mechanical structures of drivetrains, varying operational conditions and large
differences in rotational speeds among various parts in wind turbine gearboxes.
This paper conducts a comprehensive investigation of the vibration-based fault diag-
nosis of industrial wind turbine drivetrains from the perspective of practicality, in light
of most of the published literature and our on-site experiences. Section 2 introduces di-
versiﬁed structures of wind turbine drivetrains, and Section 3 summarizes the computing
methods of fault characteristic frequencies of the mechanical parts in wind turbines. In
Section 4, the conﬁguration of vibration data acquisition system and the layout of ac-
celerometers with speciﬁc performances are recommended. Section 5 illustrates common
faults in wind turbine drivetrains to provide the fundamental methods of fault diagnosis.
In Section 6, several challenging issues and solutions on the fault diagnosis of wind tur-
bine drivetrains are proposed, involving the fault detection of planetary subassemblies
in wind turbine gearboxes, fault feature extraction under nonstationary conditions and
fault information enhancement techniques. In Section 7, ﬁve research needs and future
challenges in the vibration analysis of wind turbine drivetrains are presented. Section 8
concludes the paper. Numerous naturally damaged cases are provided to illustrate the fault
diagnosis methods and failure mechanism of wind turbine drivetrains. The investigation
in this paper enables maintenance strategies to be scheduled reasonably, which can reduce
operational cost at wind farms, and even guide the design, manufacturing and installation
of wind turbines.
2. Structure of Wind T urbine Drivetrain
The horizontal-axis wind turbine is the mainstream type for the power generation of
wind energy, which can be categorized into two types on the basis of whether a speed-up
gearbox is equipped or not. One is the doubly fed wind turbine (DFWT), and the other is
the direct-drive wind turbine (DDWT).
2.1. Drivetrain of Doubly Fed Wind Turbine
In DFWT, the stator windings of the generator are directly connected to a power grid,
and the rotor windings of the generator are connected to a power grid through a converter.
The slip power between the rotor and stator is adjusted by the converter according to
the rotational speed of the rotor. Since the rated rotational speed of the generator rotor is
generally over the synchronous speed of the stator current, it is necessary to equip a speed-
up gearbox to convert the lower speed of the rotor hub to the higher speed of the generator
rotor. In light of the placement of the main bearings and speed-up gearbox, drivetrains of
the DFWT can be categorized into the following four types, as shown in Figure 1.
(1) In Figure 1a, the front main bearing is independent, but the rear one is enclosed in
the speed-up gearbox. The drivetrain is supported by the front main bearing and
two torque arms in the front of the gearbox. This type assures compact structure and
sufﬁcient distance between the two main bearings, which may reduce the pressure of
the front main bearing. This structure is widely adopted in large-scale wind turbines.
The disadvantage of this structure is that the main shaft and gearbox need to be
hoisted simultaneously during an installation or replacement.
(2) In Figure 1b, both the front and rear main bearings are independent of the gearbox. To
bear the bending moment from blades, the distance between the two main bearings
should be long enough, which may enhance the size of the drivetrain. Since the main
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 3 of 33
shaft and gearbox are separated, hoisting can be separately implemented, enabling
convenience in maintenance.
(3) In Figure 1c, both the front and rear main bearings are enclosed by a bearing box,
which is connected with the gearbox. This structure helps to reduce the length of the
cantilever of the rotor hub but enhance the difﬁculty of maintenance. For example,
the precondition of repairing a gearbox is to dismantle the main bearing box. On the
other hand, the assembly of the gearbox and generator does not refer to the same
benchmark, leading to obvious misalignment between the high-speed shaft of gearbox
and the shaft of generator. The bearings on the high-speed shaft of the gearbox and
the bearing at the drive end of generator are damageable in this structure.
(4) In Figure 1d, the front and rear main bearings are mounted in one bearing pedestal.
The two main bearings need to sustain a large bending moment, thus leading them
to be prone to failure. This structure is utilized by early wind turbines whose rated
power is less than 1 MW. After over a decade of operation, the main bearings in this
structure should be paid more attention.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 35  
wind turbines. The disadvantage of this st ructure is that the main shaft and gearbox 
need to be hoisted simultaneously during an installation or replacement. 
(2) In Figure 1b, both the front and rear main bearings are independent of the gearbox. 
To bear the bending moment from blades, the distance between the two main bearings should be long enough, which may enhance the size of the drivetrain. Since the main shaft and gearbox are se parated, hoisting can be separately 
implemented, enabling convenience in maintenance. 
(3) In Figure 1c, both the front and rear main bearings are enclosed by a bearing box, 
which is connected with the gearbox. This structure helps to reduce the length of the cantilever of the rotor hub but enhance the difficulty of maintenance. For example, the precondition of repairing a gearbox is to dismantle the main bearing box. On the other hand, the assembly of the gearbox and generator does not refer to the same benchmark, leading to obviou s misalignment between the high-speed 
shaft of gearbox and the shaft of generator. The bearings on the high-speed shaft of 
the gearbox and the bearing at the drive end of generator are damageable in this 
structure. 
(4) In Figure 1d, the front and rear main bear ings are mounted in one bearing pedestal. 
The two main bearings need to sustain a large bending moment, thus leading them to be prone to failure. This structure is utilized by early wind turbines whose rated power is less than 1 MW. After over a decade of operation, the main bearings in this structure should be paid more attention. 
 
 
 
  
Figure 1. Drivetrains of doubly fed wind turbines: ( a) independent front bear ing pedestal, and rear 
bearing in gearbox; ( b) independent pedestal for both front and rear bearing; ( c) main bearing box 
and gearbox are combined together; ( d) front bearing and rear bearing share one pedestal. 
2.2. Drivetrain of Direct-Drive Wind Turbine 
In the DDWT, the rotor hub and generato r are directly connected, without a 
speed-up gearbox. The frequency-varying electr ical energy from the stator windings of 
the generator is converted into direct curre nt by a full-power converter, and then 
inverted into the constant frequency of po wer grid. The DDWT could be electrically or 
permanent-magnet excited. Due to the absence of the speed-up gearbox, the number of 
the mechanical components in the DDWT is substantially reduced in contrast to the 
DFWT. The main bearings become the merely potential fault sources. Nevertheless, the 
demagnetization in the permanent-magnet excited DDWT still causes debate among 
Figure 1. Drivetrains of doubly fed wind turbines: ( a) independent front bearing pedestal, and rear
bearing in gearbox; ( b) independent pedestal for both front and rear bearing; ( c) main bearing box
and gearbox are combined together; ( d) front bearing and rear bearing share one pedestal.
2.2. Drivetrain of Direct-Drive Wind Turbine
In the DDWT, the rotor hub and generator are directly connected, without a speed-up
gearbox. The frequency-varying electrical energy from the stator windings of the gen-
erator is converted into direct current by a full-power converter, and then inverted into
the constant frequency of power grid. The DDWT could be electrically or permanent-
magnet excited. Due to the absence of the speed-up gearbox, the number of the mechanical
components in the DDWT is substantially reduced in contrast to the DFWT. The main
bearings become the merely potential fault sources. Nevertheless, the demagnetization in
the permanent-magnet excited DDWT still causes debate among wind turbine manufactur-
ers. Many of them prefer the DFWT rather than DDWT, especially for the selection to be
applied in offshore wind farms.
The mainstream DDWT can be categorized into the following two types, as shown in
Figure 2.
(1) In Figure 2a, there are two main bearings supporting the rotor system consisting of
the blades, rotor hub, connector and generator rotor. The generator rotor is outside
of the generator stator. Generally, the front bearing is a double row tapered roller
bearing, and the rear one is a cylindrical roller bearing. The DDWT with an external
rotor has higher energy density than the other generators [20].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 4 of 33
(2) In Figure 2b, the generator rotor is covered by the generator stator, named the internal
rotor DDWT. Only one bearing is adopted to support the heavy rotor system.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 35  
wind turbine manufacturers.  Many of them prefer the DFWT rather than DDWT, 
especially for the selection to be applied in offshore wind farms. 
The mainstream DDWT can be categorized into the following two types, as shown 
in Figure 2. 
(1) In Figure 2a, there are two main bearings supporting the rotor system consisting of 
the blades, rotor hub, connector and generator rotor. The generator rotor is outside of the generator stator. Generally, the front bearing is a double row tapered roller bearing, and the rear one is a cylindrical roller bearing. The DDWT with an external 
rotor has higher energy density than the other generators [20]. 
(2) In Figure 2b, the generator rotor is covered by the generator stator, named the 
internal rotor DDWT. Only one bearing is adopted to support the heavy rotor 
system. 
 
 
Figure 2. Drivetrains of direct-drive wind turbine: ( a) external rotor; ( b) internal rotor. 
The rated rotational speed of the DDWT is much lower than that of the generator of 
the DFWT due to the absence of a speed-up gearbox. Therefore, the number of pole pairs in the direct-drive generator should be enough  to achieve a relatively high frequency of 
power generation, which enhances the weight  and volume of the DDWT. Consequently, 
the heavy rotor system and stochastic wind  impact cause a challenge for the safety 
operation of the main bearings in the DDWT [21]. 
3. Fault Characteristic Frequency in Wind Turbine Drivetrain 
When faults arise on a gear, a phenomen on emerges, which is described as the 
rotational frequency of the shaft with the fa ulty gear that modulates the mesh frequency 
of gear pair or the natural frequency of the gearbox. For parallel-stage transmission, the 
rotational frequency of the shaft with faulty gear and its harmonics are the fault 
characteristic frequencies of the faulty gear. There are two types of wind turbine gearboxes equipped in wind turbines: one pl anetary stage combined with two parallel 
stages, shown in Figure 1a,d; two planetary stages combined with one parallel stage, 
shown in Figure 1b,c. 
Figure 2. Drivetrains of direct-drive wind turbine: ( a) external rotor; ( b) internal rotor.
The rated rotational speed of the DDWT is much lower than that of the generator of
the DFWT due to the absence of a speed-up gearbox. Therefore, the number of pole pairs
in the direct-drive generator should be enough to achieve a relatively high frequency of
power generation, which enhances the weight and volume of the DDWT. Consequently, the
heavy rotor system and stochastic wind impact cause a challenge for the safety operation
of the main bearings in the DDWT [21].
3. Fault Characteristic Frequency in Wind T urbine Drivetrain
When faults arise on a gear, a phenomenon emerges, which is described as the rota-
tional frequency of the shaft with the faulty gear that modulates the mesh frequency of gear
pair or the natural frequency of the gearbox. For parallel-stage transmission, the rotational
frequency of the shaft with faulty gear and its harmonics are the fault characteristic frequen-
cies of the faulty gear. There are two types of wind turbine gearboxes equipped in wind
turbines: one planetary stage combined with two parallel stages, shown in Figure 1a,d ;
two planetary stages combined with one parallel stage, shown in Figure 1b,c.
3.1. One Planetary Stage Combined with Two Parallel Stages
As shown in Figure 3, the gearbox consists of one planetary stage and two parallel
stages. The rotor hub is connected to the planet carrier of the planetary stage, and its
rotational frequency is denoted by fc. The three planet gears Zpmesh with the ring gear Zr
and sun gear Zs, grouping the planetary stage (PS). The sun gear drives the sun shaft, and
further compels the wheel Zmito rotate. The sun gear and wheel Zmiare installed on the
sun shaft, sharing the same rotational frequency fs. The wheel Zmiand pinion Zmomesh
with each other and form the intermediate stage (IS). The pinion Zmoand wheel Zhiare
installed on the same shaft, named the intermediate shaft, with the rotational frequency fi.
The wheel Zhiand pinion Zhogroup the high-speed stage (HSS). The pinion Zhois installed
on the high-speed shaft with the rotational frequency fh. The high-speed shaft is coupled
with the shaft of the generator.
The mesh frequencies of different stages and the rotational frequencies of different
shafts are computed as in Tables 1 and 2.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 5 of 33
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 35  
3.1. One Planetary Stage Combin ed with Two Parallel Stages 
As shown in Figure 3, the gearbox consists of one planetary stage and two parallel 
stages. The rotor hub is connected to the planet carrier of the planetary stage, and its 
rotational frequency is denoted by fc. The three planet gears Zp mesh with the ring gear Zr 
and sun gear Zs, grouping the planetary stage (PS). The sun gear drives the sun shaft, and 
further compels the wheel Zmi to rotate. The sun gear and wheel Zmi are installed on the 
sun shaft, sharing the sa me rotational frequency fs. The wheel Zmi and pinion Zmo mesh 
with each other and form the intermediate stage (IS). The pinion Zmo and wheel Zhi are 
installed on the same shaft, named the interm ediate shaft, with the rotational frequency fi. 
The wheel Zhi and pinion Zho group the high-speed stage (HSS). The pinion Zho is installed 
on the high-speed shaft with the rotational frequency fh. The high-speed shaft is coupled 
with the shaft of the generator. 
RotorZp
ZsZr
ZmiZmoZhiZho
ISHSS
PSGenerator
Gearbox1
234
fcCouplingfh
 
Figure 3. Structure of wind turbine gearbox with on e planetary stage and two parallel stages: 
1—planet carrier of planetary stage; 2—sun shaf t; 3—intermediate shaft; 4—high-speed shaft. 
The mesh frequencies of different stages and the rotational frequencies of different 
shafts are computed as in Tables 1 and 2. 
Table 1. Mesh frequencies of different stages in th e gearbox with one planetary stage and two 
parallel stages.  
 Formula 
Planetary stage ()PSc r s c sf fZ f fZ=⋅= −  
Intermediate stage ISs m ii m of fZ fZ==  
High speed stage HSS i hi h hof fZ f Z==  
Table 2. Rotational frequencies of different shafts in  the gearbox with one planetary stage and two 
parallel stages.  
 Formula 
Sun shaft  ()1/s cr s ffZ Z=+ 
Intermediate shaft /i s mi moffZ Z=⋅  
High-speed shaft  /h i hi hoffZ Z=⋅  
The total transmission ratio of this kind of gearbox is computed as 
11mi hi r
s mo hoZ Z ZrZ ZZ=+ ⋅ ⋅
 (1) 
Figure 3. Structure of wind turbine gearbox with one planetary stage and two parallel stages:
1—planet carrier of planetary stage; 2—sun shaft; 3—intermediate shaft; 4—high-speed shaft.
Table 1. Mesh frequencies of different stages in the gearbox with one planetary stage and two
parallel stages.
Formula
Planetary stage fPS=fcZr= (fs fc)Zs
Intermediate stage fIS=fsZmi=fiZmo
High speed stage fHSS =fiZhi=fhZho
Table 2. Rotational frequencies of different shafts in the gearbox with one planetary stage and two
parallel stages.
Formula
Sun shaft fs=fc(1+Zr/Zs)
Intermediate shaft fi=fsZmi/Zmo
High-speed shaft fh=fiZhi/Zho
The total transmission ratio of this kind of gearbox is computed as
r1=
1+Zr
Zs
Zmi
ZmoZhi
Zho(1)
During the analysis of vibration signal, the rotational frequency of the high-speed
shaft is more easily detected than that of the planet carrier due to the larger vibration energy
in the high-speed stage. Thus, the mesh frequencies in Table 1 and rotational frequencies
in Table 2 can be reversely deduced from the rotational frequency of the high-speed shaft.
The fault characteristic frequencies of Zmi,Zmoand Zhi,Zhocan be, respectively, denoted by
fs,fi, and fh, as in Table 2.
3.2. Two Planetary Stages Combined with One Parallel Stage
In order to enhance the transmission ratio at compact nacelle, two planetary stages
and one parallel stage are combined to design the wind turbine gearbox. As shown in
Figure 4, the rotor hub is connected to the planet carrier of the ﬁrst planetary stage, and
the rotational frequency of the ﬁrst planet carrier is denoted by fc1. The three planet gears
Zp1mesh with the ring gear Zr1and sun gear Zs1, grouping the ﬁrst planetary stage (PS1).
The sun shaft of the ﬁrst planetary stage is connected to the planet carrier of the second
planetary stage, sharing the same rotational frequency fc2. The three planet gears Zp2mesh
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 6 of 33
with the ring gear Zr2and sun gear Zs2, grouping the second planetary stage (PS2). The
rotational frequency of the sun shaft of the second planetary stage is denoted by fs2. The
sun gear Zs2and the wheel Zhiare installed on the sun shaft of the second planetary stage.
The wheel Zhiand pinion Zhoform the high-speed stage. The pinion Zhois installed on the
high-speed shaft with the rotational frequency fh.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 35  
During the analysis of vibration signal, th e rotational frequency of the high-speed 
shaft is more easily detected than that of the planet carrier due to the larger vibration 
energy in the high-speed stage. Thus, the mesh frequencies in Table 1 and rotational 
frequencies in Table 2 can be reversely deduced from the rotational frequency of the high-speed shaft. The fault characteristic frequencies of Z
mi, Zmo and Zhi, Zho can be, 
respectively, denoted by fs, fi, and fh, as in Table 2. 
3.2. Two Planetary Stages Comb ined with One Parallel Stage 
In order to enhance the transmission ratio at compact nacelle, two planetary stages 
and one parallel stage are combined to design the wind turbine gearbox. As shown in 
Figure 4, the rotor hub is connected to the pl anet carrier of the first planetary stage, and 
the rotational frequency of the first planet carrier is denoted by fc1. The three planet gears 
Zp1 mesh with the ring gear Zr1 and sun gear Zs1, grouping the first planetary stage (PS1). 
The sun shaft of the first planetary stage is co nnected to the planet carrier of the second 
planetary stage, sharing the same rotational frequency fc2. The three planet gears Zp2 mesh 
with the ring gear Zr2 and sun gear Zs2, grouping the second planetary stage (PS2). The 
rotational frequency of the sun shaft of the second planetary stage is denoted by fs2. The 
sun gear Zs2 and the wheel Zhi are installed on the sun shaft of the second planetary stage. 
The wheel Zhi and pinion Zho form the high-speed stage. The pinion Zho is installed on the 
high-speed shaft with the rotational frequency fh. 
RotorZp1
Zs1Zr1
ZhiZhoHSS PS1
Generator
GearboxZp2
Zs2Zr2
1 2
34PS2
fc1Couplingfh
 
Figure 4. Structure of wind turbine gearbox with tw o planetary stages and one parallel stage: 
1—planet carrier of the first planet ary stage; 2—planet carrier of the second planetary stage; 3—the 
second sun shaft; 4—high-speed shaft. 
Then, the mesh frequencies of different stages and the rotational frequencies of 
different shafts in the gearbox with two pl anetary stages and one parallel stage are 
computed as in Tables 3 and 4. 
Table 3. Mesh frequencies of different stages in th e gearbox with two planetary stages and one 
parallel stage.  
 Formula 
The first planetary stage 11 1 2 1 1 ()PSc r cc sf fZ f fZ=⋅ = −  
The second planetary stage 22 2 2 2 2 ()PSc r s c sf fZ f fZ=⋅ = −  
High speed stage 2 HSS s hi h hof fZ f Z==  
 
Figure 4. Structure of wind turbine gearbox with two planetary stages and one parallel stage: 1—
planet carrier of the ﬁrst planetary stage; 2—planet carrier of the second planetary stage; 3—the
second sun shaft; 4—high-speed shaft.
Then, the mesh frequencies of different stages and the rotational frequencies of differ-
ent shafts in the gearbox with two planetary stages and one parallel stage are computed as
in Tables 3 and 4.
Table 3. Mesh frequencies of different stages in the gearbox with two planetary stages and one
parallel stage.
Formula
The ﬁrst planetary stage fPS1=fc1Zr1= (fc2 fc1)Zs1
The second planetary stage fPS2=fc2Zr2= (fs2 fc2)Zs2
High speed stage fHSS =fs2Zhi=fhZho
Table 4. Rotational frequencies of different shafts in the gearbox with two planetary stages and one
parallel stage.
Formula
The sun shaft of the ﬁrst PS
(The planet carrier of the second PS)fc2=fc1(1+Zr1/Zs1)
The sun shaft of the second PS fs2=fc2(1+Zr2/Zs2)
High-speed shaft fh=fs2Zhi/Zho
The total transmission ratio of this structure of wind turbine gearbox is
r2=
1+Zr1
Zs1

1+Zr2
Zs2
Zhi
Zho(2)
The fault characteristic frequencies of Zhiand Zhoare, respectively, denoted by fs2and
fhin Table 4.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 7 of 33
3.3. Fault Characteristic Frequency in Planetary Stage
For the gear transmission in the planetary stage, the planet gears have both revolution
and autorotation motions. Thus, the computation of the fault characteristic frequency of
the planetary stage is different from that of parallel stage. The structure of the planetary
stage is shown in Figure 5, which consists of the ring gear, sun gear, planet gears, planet
carrier and planet bearings. The ring gear is stationary with an accelerometer mounted on
the outer surface to monitor the health status of the planetary subassemblies.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 7 of 35  
Table 4. Rotational frequencies of different shafts in the gearbox with two planetary stages and one 
parallel stage.  
 Formula 
The sun shaft of the first PS  
(The planet carrier of the second PS) ()21 1 1 1/cc r sf fZ Z=+ 
The sun shaft of the second PS  ()22 2 2 1/sc r sf fZ Z=+  
High-speed shaft 2 /hsh i h offZZ=⋅  
 
The total transmission ratio of this structure of wind turbine gearbox is 
12
2
1211hi rr
s sh oZ ZZrZ ZZ =+ ⋅+ ⋅ 
  (2) 
The fault characteristic frequencies of Zhi and Zho are, respectively, denoted by fs2 and 
fh in Table 4. 
3.3. Fault Characteristic F requency in Planetary Stage 
For the gear transmission in the planetary stage, the planet gears have both 
revolution and autorotation motions. Thus, the computation of the fault characteristic frequency of the planetary stage is different from that of para llel stage. The structure of 
the planetary stage is shown in Figure 5, which consists of the ring gear, sun gear, planet 
gears, planet carrier and planet bearings. The ring gear is stationary with an 
accelerometer mounted on the outer surface to monitor the health stat us of the planetary 
subassemblies. 
Ring gear
Planet gearSun gear
Planet carrierPlanet bearin g
 
Figure 5. Structure of the planetary stage. 
Vicuña proposed a theoretical vibration model for a planetary gearbox only 
considering the planet-ring meshing processes and the ring gear as the transmission path 
[22]. Koch and Vicuña pointed out that the phenomenological model coincided better with the Fourier spectrum of vibration signal than the dynamic model for the planetary 
gearbox [23]. The lumped-parameter mo del and phenomenological model were 
compared in [24], which showed that they were both in agreement with experimental 
measurements with ring gear fault, planet gear fault and sun gear fault. Manufacturing 
errors of gears could be regarded as one type of distributed fault in planetary gearboxes. Inalpolat and Kahraman [25] developed a dynamic model to predict modulation 
sidebands of a planetary gear set with manufacturing errors. Chaari et al. [26] analyzed 
Figure 5. Structure of the planetary stage.
Vicuña proposed a theoretical vibration model for a planetary gearbox only consider-
ing the planet-ring meshing processes and the ring gear as the transmission path [ 22]. Koch
and Vicuña pointed out that the phenomenological model coincided better with the Fourier
spectrum of vibration signal than the dynamic model for the planetary gearbox [ 23]. The
lumped-parameter model and phenomenological model were compared in [ 24], which
showed that they were both in agreement with experimental measurements with ring gear
fault, planet gear fault and sun gear fault. Manufacturing errors of gears could be regarded
as one type of distributed fault in planetary gearboxes. Inalpolat and Kahraman [ 25]
developed a dynamic model to predict modulation sidebands of a planetary gear set with
manufacturing errors. Chaari et al. [ 26] analyzed the inﬂuence of eccentricity and proﬁle
error on the dynamic behavior of planetary gears. They also investigated the inﬂuence
of tooth pitting and cracking on gear mesh stiffness [ 27]. Feng and Zuo [ 28] proposed a
vibration model of a planetary gearbox considering three transfer paths and gave the fault
characteristic frequencies of planet gear, sun gear and ring gear. Lei et al. [ 29] established
a phenomenological model of a planetary gear set with the consideration of all the time-
varying vibration transfer paths from gear meshing points to a ﬁxed transducer. Liang
et al. [ 30] developed a vibration signal model of a planetary gear set by incorporating the
effect of multiple vibration sources and a changing transmission path. Chen and Shao [ 31]
simulated the mesh stiffness with the growth of crack size of the ring gear.
In summary, when a fault arises on the planet gear, there is an impulse during its
meshing with the sun gear and ring gear, respectively. When there is a fault on the sun
gear, a shock arises during its meshing with each planet gear. When a fault arises on the
ring gear, there will be an impulse when each planet gear passes the defective location of
the ring gear. Thus, the fault characteristic frequency of the planetary stage is deduced in
Table 5.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 8 of 33
Table 5. Fault characteristic frequency of planetary gear transmission.
Only Faulty Gear Considered Potential Combination
Planet gear f(p)
p=fPS/Zp kf(p)
pnfc
Sun gear f(p)
s=3fPS/Zs kf(p)
snfs
Ring gear f(p)
r=3fPS/Zr=3fr
Where f(p)
p,f(p)
sand f(p)
rare the fault characteristic frequencies of the planet gear,
sun gear and ring gear, respectively. f(p)
pin Table 5 is also the rotational frequency of the
planet gear with respect to the planet carrier. For local faults on the planet gear, the fault
characteristic frequency f(p)
pmight be 2 fPS/Zp, because of the twice shocks from planet gear
meshing with the ring gear and sun gear during one rotation of the planet gear relative to
the planet carrier. The 3 in Table 5 means there are three planet gears in the planetary stage
of the wind turbine gearbox. It is noteworthy that the fault characteristic frequencies of
the planet gear and sun gear might be the combination type in the right column in Table 5 ,
because the rotation of the planet carrier and sun shaft generates a modulation effect to the
accelerometer ﬁxed on the outer surface of the ring gear when faults emerge on the planet
gear and sun gear. kand nare both integers.
3.4. Bearing Supporting Fixed-Axis Gear or Rotor
Cylindrical roller bearing, angular contact ball bearing and deep groove ball bearing
are widely applied in wind turbine gearboxes and drivetrains. For any bearing supporting
ﬁxed-axis gear or rotor, it is common to compute the fault characteristic frequency as in
Table 6.
Table 6. Fault characteristic frequency of bearing supporting ﬁxed-axis gear or rotor.
Formula
Inner race f(b)
i=frNb
2
1+d
Dcosj
Outer race f(b)
o=frNb
2
1 d
Dcosj
Rolling elements f(b)
r=frD
2d
1 
d
Dcosj2
Cage f(b)
c=fr
2
1 d
Dcosj
Where fris the rotational frequency of the shaft assembled with the rotating part of
the bearing (mainly inner race), dis the diameter of rolling element, Dis the pitch diameter
of the bearing, Nbis the number of rolling elements and jis the bearing contact angle. If
the outer race of the bearing is revolving, such as the structure of DDWT in Figure 2 and
the planet bearings in Figure 5, fris the rotational frequency of the rotor assembled with
the outer race, and the fault characteristic frequency of the bearing cage is computed as
Equation (3).
f(b)
c=fr
2
1+d
Dcosj
(3)
3.5. Planet Bearings
The bearings supporting planet gears in the planetary stage, named planet bearings,
are signiﬁcant to guarantee the average-load revolution of the planetary gear transmission.
The outer race of the planet bearing is ﬁxed with the planet gear, rotating as the self-
rotational frequency of planet gear. The inner race of the planet bearing is ﬁxed with the
planet carrier. The fault characteristic frequency of planet bearing is shown in Table 7.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 9 of 33
Table 7. Fault characteristic frequency of planet bearing.
Only Faulty Bearing Parts Considered Potential Combination
Inner race f(pb)
i=f(p)
pNb
2
1+d
Dcosj
kf(pb)
infc
Outer race f(pb)
o =f(p)
pNb
2
1 d
Dcosj
kf(pb)
omf(p)
pnfc
Rolling elements f(pb)
r =f(p)
pD
2d
1 
d
Dcosj2
kf(pb)
rmf(pb)
cnfc
Cage f(pb)
c =f(p)
p
2
1+d
Dcosj
kf(pb)
cnfc
Where f(p)
pis the rotational frequency of planet gear with respect to the planet carrier,
and the fault characteristic frequency of the planet gear with distributed fault. Due to the
additional modulation effect, the fault characteristic frequency of planet bearing may be
the combination type in the right column of Table 7.
4. Vibration Data Acquisition and Analysis System
The vibration-based condition monitoring system (CMS) for wind turbine drivetrains
can be classiﬁed into online CMS and portable CMS.
4.1. Online Condition Monitoring System
Online CMS consists of transducers (accelerometers and tachometers), a data ac-
quisition system and a data processing system, which is shown in Figure 6. Several
accelerometers are mounted onto the surface of the drivetrain to monitor the health status
of the mechanical parts, as shown in Figures 1 and 2. For the DFWT, eight accelerome-
ters are utilized to monitor the main bearings, gearbox and generator bearing. For the
DDWT, one or two accelerometers are installed for the condition monitoring of the main
bearings. With the tachometer, the rotational frequency of the generator can be accurately
measured, although it enhances the cost of CMS. However, it is optional because the rota-
tional frequency of the generator can be estimated through analyzing the vibration signals.
The data acquisition system uses multichannel A/D modules to convert analog vibration
voltage into digital signal, and implements anti-aliasing ﬁltering for the signal. Many
post-processing methods, including time analysis, frequency analysis and time-frequency
analysis, are implemented in the data processing system, which can provide the fault
diagnosis results of the mechanical parts of the monitored wind turbine drivetrains.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 10 of 35  
signal. Many post-processing methods, including time analysis, frequency analysis and 
time-frequency analysis, are implemented in  the data processing system, which can 
provide the fault diagnosis results of the mech anical parts of the monitored wind turbine 
drivetrains. 
Main bearings
Gearbox
GeneratorData acquisition system Data processing system
 
Figure 6. Online vibration data acquisition and analysis system for wind turbine drivetrain. 
4.2. Portable Vibration Data Acquisition System 
In order to reduce the cost of the conditio n monitoring of wind turbine drivetrains, 
many wind farms utilize portable data acquisition systems for collecting vibration signals 
point by point, as shown in Figure 7. 
 
Figure 7. Portable data acquisition system for wind turbine drivetrain. 
The deficiencies of the portable system ar e obvious: (1) the inefficiency of signal 
collection and analysis; (2) data acquisition needs human assist; (3) it is hard to compare 
the vibration features between different channe ls due to the potential varying rotational 
speeds at different testing time; (4) power ge neration loss is inevitable because wind 
turbines need shutdown when climbing towers. Therefore, online CMS is recommended 
to be installed for the purpose of the condition monitoring of wind turbine drivetrains. 
4.3. Layout of Accelerometers 
Generally, eight accelerometers are installed on the drivetrain, amongst which two 
of them are for the main bearings, four of them for the gearbox and two accelerometers 
for generator bearings. The main bearings and planetary gears operate under low 
rotational speed and heavy load, so the sampling frequencies for these parts should be low (5120 Hz is suggested), and their sampling durations should be long enough to 
capture fault characteristics. For example, pr ovided that the rotational frequency of the 
Figure 6. Online vibration data acquisition and analysis system for wind turbine drivetrain.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 10 of 33
4.2. Portable Vibration Data Acquisition System
In order to reduce the cost of the condition monitoring of wind turbine drivetrains,
many wind farms utilize portable data acquisition systems for collecting vibration signals
point by point, as shown in Figure 7.
The deﬁciencies of the portable system are obvious: (1) the inefﬁciency of signal
collection and analysis; (2) data acquisition needs human assist; (3) it is hard to compare the
vibration features between different channels due to the potential varying rotational speeds
at different testing time; (4) power generation loss is inevitable because wind turbines need
shutdown when climbing towers. Therefore, online CMS is recommended to be installed
for the purpose of the condition monitoring of wind turbine drivetrains.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 10 of 35  
signal. Many post-processing methods, including time analysis, frequency analysis and 
time-frequency analysis, are implemented in  the data processing system, which can 
provide the fault diagnosis results of the mech anical parts of the monitored wind turbine 
drivetrains. 
Main bearings
Gearbox
GeneratorData acquisition system Data processing system
 
Figure 6. Online vibration data acquisition and analysis system for wind turbine drivetrain. 
4.2. Portable Vibration Data Acquisition System 
In order to reduce the cost of the conditio n monitoring of wind turbine drivetrains, 
many wind farms utilize portable data acquisition systems for collecting vibration signals 
point by point, as shown in Figure 7. 
 
Figure 7. Portable data acquisition system for wind turbine drivetrain. 
The deficiencies of the portable system ar e obvious: (1) the inefficiency of signal 
collection and analysis; (2) data acquisition needs human assist; (3) it is hard to compare 
the vibration features between different channe ls due to the potential varying rotational 
speeds at different testing time; (4) power ge neration loss is inevitable because wind 
turbines need shutdown when climbing towers. Therefore, online CMS is recommended 
to be installed for the purpose of the condition monitoring of wind turbine drivetrains. 
4.3. Layout of Accelerometers 
Generally, eight accelerometers are installed on the drivetrain, amongst which two 
of them are for the main bearings, four of them for the gearbox and two accelerometers 
for generator bearings. The main bearings and planetary gears operate under low 
rotational speed and heavy load, so the sampling frequencies for these parts should be low (5120 Hz is suggested), and their sampling durations should be long enough to 
capture fault characteristics. For example, pr ovided that the rotational frequency of the 
Figure 7. Portable data acquisition system for wind turbine drivetrain.
4.3. Layout of Accelerometers
Generally, eight accelerometers are installed on the drivetrain, amongst which two of
them are for the main bearings, four of them for the gearbox and two accelerometers for gener-
ator bearings. The main bearings and planetary gears operate under low rotational speed and
heavy load, so the sampling frequencies for these parts should be low (5120 Hz is suggested),
and their sampling durations should be long enough to capture fault characteristics. For
example, provided that the rotational frequency of the planet carrier is 0.33 Hz, the sampling
duration is suggested to be at least 16 s to capture more than five vibration waveforms to
exhibit potential fault information. From the sun shaft to the high-speed shaft, the rotational
frequencies increase gradually , leading to an increment in the fault characteristic frequencies
of the related gears and bearings. The sampling frequencies for these parts should be high
(25,600 Hz is suggested). The sampling durations for these parts can be shortened; generally ,
4 s vibration signal is enough to analyze the fault characteristics. The layout of accelerometers
of the vibration monitoring system, the sampling frequencies and sampling durations for
DFWT drivetrains are suggested in Table 8.
Table 8. Layout of accelerometers of vibration monitoring system.
No.Frequency Response Rang of
AccelerometersSensitivity of
AccelerometersPositionsSampling
FrequencySampling
Duration
1 0.1~5000 Hz 500 mV/g Front main bearing Low/5120 Hz Long/16 s
2 0.1~5000 Hz 500 mV/g Rear main bearing Low/5120 Hz Long/16 s
3 0.1~5000 Hz 500 mV/g Outer of the ring gear Low/5120 Hz Long/16 s
4 0.5~8000 Hz 100 mV/g Sun shaft High/25,600 Hz Short/4 s
5 0.5~8000 Hz 100 mV/g Intermediate shaft High/25,600 Hz Short/4 s
6 0.5~8000 Hz 100 mV/g High-speed shaft High/25,600 Hz Short/4 s
7 0.5~8000 Hz 100 mV/gDrive end of the
generatorHigh/25,600 Hz Short/4 s
8 0.5~8000 Hz 100 mV/gNondrive end of the
generatorHigh/25,600 Hz Short/4 s
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 11 of 33
The frequency response range 0.1~5000 Hz and sensitivity of 500 mV/g determine a
low-frequency accelerometer, which is suitable for the condition monitoring of the main
bearings and planetary subassemblies in front of the wind turbine gearbox. In contrast, the
high-frequency accelerometer with a frequency response range 0.5~8000 Hz and sensitivity
of 100 mV/g is utilized to monitor the parts from the sun shaft to the generator.
For the DDWT, the supporting part is the main bearing; thus, only low-frequency
accelerometers are used for condition monitoring.
5. Common Mechanical Faults in Wind T urbine Drivetrains
In this section, several common mechanical faults which can be detected by simple
time analysis or envelope analysis are introduced, with their vibration mechanisms being
discussed. These fault cases are all from on-site wind turbines, which can provide an
empirical guide for the fault diagnosis of the mechanical components in wind turbines.
5.1. Faulty Main Bearing of DFWT
Figure 8 shows the vibration signals from a main bearing of a 1.5 MW wind turbine.
The data were from transducer 1 in the structure of Figure 1b, collected by an online
condition monitoring system. Figure 8a is the vibration signal from a healthy main bearing,
and Figure 8c is the vibration signal from the same main bearing under fault conditions.
Obviously, there are regular shocks in Figure 8c, exhibiting a potential fault of the main
bearing. It can be observed that the 4.932 Hz and its harmonics are distinct in the envelope
spectrum (ES) [ 32] of Figure 8d. Dividing the rotational frequency by 0.39 Hz of the main
shaft, the fault characteristic of the outer race (4.932/0.39 = 12.65) of the main bearing
(SKF240/630ecj) is obtained, deducing that some severe faults emerge on the outer race.
The faulty main bearing has already extruded the end closure, as shown in Figure 9.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 35  
0 5 10 15 20−505
t [s]A [m/s2]
10 20 30 40 5000.20.40.6
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/Hz]0 5 10 15 20−505
t [s]A [m/s2]
10 20 30 40 5000.20.40.6
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/ H z ](a)
(b)(c)
(d)
4.932
9.814
14.75
0.2 0.4 0.6 0.800.51 0.39
 
Figure 8. Vibration signal of healthy and faulty main bearing: ( a) temporal signal of healthy 
bearing; ( b) envelope spectrum of healthy bearing; ( c) temporal signal of faulty bearing; ( d) 
envelope spectrum of faulty bearing. 
 
Figure 9. Extrusive end closure of the faulty main bearing. 
5.2. Faulty Gears in Parallel Stages of Wind Turbine Gearboxes 
Since wind turbine gearboxes suffer complex loads and varying rotational speed, 
some gear faults, such as pitting, chipped tooth or broken tooth, happen frequently. 
Fortunately, faulty gears in parallel stages are prone to being detected in light of their 
high vibration energy under high rotational speed. Figure 10 shows a picture of a 
chipped pinion on the intermediate shaft of a wind turbine gearbox. The vibration signal 
of this faulty gear is shown in Figure 11a, collected from transducer 5 in the structure of 
Figure 1a with a portable vibration data acqu isition system. The Fourier spectrum (FS) is 
shown in Figure 11b where the mesh frequency fIS of the intermediate stage and fHSS of the 
high-speed stage occupy the leading positions. Meanwhile, some resonance frequency 
bands emerge. In Figure 11a, there are acut e shocks in the original vibration signal, 
denoting the local fault on the meshed gear. The signal between 400 and 650 Hz is firstly 
filtered, then the filtered signal is shown as  the red line in Figure 11c, and its envelope 
signal is shown as the blue line. The envelope spectrum of the filtered signal is shown in Extrusive end 
closure 
Figure 8. Vibration signal of healthy and faulty main bearing: ( a) temporal signal of healthy bearing;
(b) envelope spectrum of healthy bearing; ( c) temporal signal of faulty bearing; ( d) envelope spectrum
of faulty bearing.
5.2. Faulty Gears in Parallel Stages of Wind Turbine Gearboxes
Since wind turbine gearboxes suffer complex loads and varying rotational speed, some
gear faults, such as pitting, chipped tooth or broken tooth, happen frequently. Fortunately,
faulty gears in parallel stages are prone to being detected in light of their high vibration
energy under high rotational speed. Figure 10 shows a picture of a chipped pinion on the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 12 of 33
intermediate shaft of a wind turbine gearbox. The vibration signal of this faulty gear is
shown in Figure 11a, collected from transducer 5 in the structure of Figure 1a with a portable
vibration data acquisition system. The Fourier spectrum (FS) is shown in Figure 11b where
the mesh frequency fISof the intermediate stage and fHSSof the high-speed stage occupy
the leading positions. Meanwhile, some resonance frequency bands emerge. In Figure 11a ,
there are acute shocks in the original vibration signal, denoting the local fault on the
meshed gear. The signal between 400 and 650 Hz is ﬁrstly ﬁltered, then the ﬁltered signal
is shown as the red line in Figure 11c, and its envelope signal is shown as the blue line.
The envelope spectrum of the ﬁltered signal is shown in Figure 11d where the rotational
frequency fiof the intermediate shaft dominates the whole envelope spectrum. The fault
characteristic frequency fiis in accordance with the faulty pinion on the intermediate shaft.
1 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Figure 9. Extrusive end closure of the faulty main bearing.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 13 of 35  
Figure 11d where the rotational frequency fi of the intermediate shaft dominates the 
whole envelope spectrum. The fault characteristic frequency fi is in accordance with the 
faulty pinion on the intermediate shaft. 
 
Figure 10. Chipped pinion on intermediate shaft of a wind turbine gearbox. 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6−50050
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 50000123
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)2/Hz]
0 1 2 4 5 6−20020
t [s]A [m/s2]
  
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 10005
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)2/Hz]Filtered signal between 400 and 650 Hz
Envelope signal
3(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)fHSS
2fHSS3fHSSfIS
fi2fi3fi4fi5fi6fi7fi8fi9fi10fi11fi12fi13fi
 
Figure 11. Vibration signal of the chipped pi nion on intermediate shaft: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) 
Fourier spectrum; ( c) filtered signal and envelope signal; ( d) envelope spectrum. 
Compared with the vibration signal of the fa ulty gear on the intermediate shaft, the 
shocks of the faulty pinion on the high-speed  shaft in Figure 12a perform more intensive 
due to the higher rotational speed of the high-speed shaft. Figure 12b is the Fourier 
spectrum of the vibration signal in Figure 12a, showing multiple harmonics of the 
rotational frequency of the high-speed shaft. Figure 12c is the all-pass envelope spectrum 
of the vibration signal, where clear rotation al frequencies of the high-speed shaft are 
displayed. The broken pinion on the high-s peed shaft corresponding with the vibration 
signal in Figure 12 is shown in Figure 13. 
Figure 10. Chipped pinion on intermediate shaft of a wind turbine gearbox.
Compared with the vibration signal of the faulty gear on the intermediate shaft, the
shocks of the faulty pinion on the high-speed shaft in Figure 12a perform more intensive due
to the higher rotational speed of the high-speed shaft. Figure 12b is the Fourier spectrum of
the vibration signal in Figure 12a, showing multiple harmonics of the rotational frequency
of the high-speed shaft. Figure 12c is the all-pass envelope spectrum of the vibration signal,
where clear rotational frequencies of the high-speed shaft are displayed. The broken pinion
on the high-speed shaft corresponding with the vibration signal in Figure 12 is shown in
Figure 13.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 13 of 33
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 13 of 35  
Figure 11d where the rotational frequency fi of the intermediate shaft dominates the 
whole envelope spectrum. The fault characteristic frequency fi is in accordance with the 
faulty pinion on the intermediate shaft. 
 
Figure 10. Chipped pinion on intermediate shaft of a wind turbine gearbox. 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6−50050
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 50000123
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)2/Hz]
0 1 2 4 5 6−20020
t [s]A [m/s2]
  
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 10005
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)2/Hz]Filtered signal between 400 and 650 Hz
Envelope signal
3(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)fHSS
2fHSS3fHSSfIS
fi2fi3fi4fi5fi6fi7fi8fi9fi10fi11fi12fi13fi
 
Figure 11. Vibration signal of the chipped pi nion on intermediate shaft: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) 
Fourier spectrum; ( c) filtered signal and envelope signal; ( d) envelope spectrum. 
Compared with the vibration signal of the fa ulty gear on the intermediate shaft, the 
shocks of the faulty pinion on the high-speed  shaft in Figure 12a perform more intensive 
due to the higher rotational speed of the high-speed shaft. Figure 12b is the Fourier 
spectrum of the vibration signal in Figure 12a, showing multiple harmonics of the 
rotational frequency of the high-speed shaft. Figure 12c is the all-pass envelope spectrum 
of the vibration signal, where clear rotation al frequencies of the high-speed shaft are 
displayed. The broken pinion on the high-s peed shaft corresponding with the vibration 
signal in Figure 12 is shown in Figure 13. 
Figure 11. Vibration signal of the chipped pinion on intermediate shaft: ( a) temporal signal;
(b) Fourier spectrum; ( c) ﬁltered signal and envelope signal; ( d) envelope spectrum.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 35  
0 1 2 3 4 5 6−50050
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000024
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/Hz]
20 40 60 80 100 120 1400510
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/Hz](a)
(b)
(c)
fh2fh 3fh
4fh 5fh
 
Figure 12. Vibration signal of the broken pinion on high-speed shaft: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) 
Fourier spectrum; ( c) envelope spectrum. 
 
Figure 13. Broken pinion on high-speed sh aft of a wind turbine gearbox. 
5.3. Bearing Fault in the Generator of DFWT 
Bearing failures in wind turbine generators  are common due to their high rotational 
speed, latent misalignment with the gearbo x, induced shaft current, insufficient 
lubrication, etc. Figure 14 shows an electric corrosion fault of a generator bearing caused 
by shaft current, and the corresponding vibration signal is shown in Figure 15a. The 
vibration signal was collected from transducer 7 in the structure of Figure 1c at the drive 
end of the generator, with a portable vibration data acquisition system. The vibration amplitude exceeds the vibration criterion of VDI 3834 [33], indicating the unhealthy 
s t a t u s  o f  t h e  t e s t e d  b e a r i n g .  F i g u r e  1 5 b is the Fourier spectrum of Figure 15a, 
accompanied by a series of spectral peaks from 1000 to 4000 Hz. Demodulating the 
vibration signal from 1000 to 2500 Hz, the envelope spectrum is obtained, as shown in in 
Figure 15c, where the fault characteristic fr equencies of outer race of the bearing are 
dominant. These fault characteristic frequencies are in accordance with the faulty bearing 
in Figure 14. 
Figure 12. Vibration signal of the broken pinion on high-speed shaft: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) Fourier
spectrum; ( c) envelope spectrum.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 35  
0 1 2 3 4 5 6−50050
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000024
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/Hz]
20 40 60 80 100 120 1400510
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/Hz](a)
(b)
(c)
fh2fh 3fh
4fh 5fh
 
Figure 12. Vibration signal of the broken pinion on high-speed shaft: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) 
Fourier spectrum; ( c) envelope spectrum. 
 
Figure 13. Broken pinion on high-speed sh aft of a wind turbine gearbox. 
5.3. Bearing Fault in the Generator of DFWT 
Bearing failures in wind turbine generators  are common due to their high rotational 
speed, latent misalignment with the gearbo x, induced shaft current, insufficient 
lubrication, etc. Figure 14 shows an electric corrosion fault of a generator bearing caused 
by shaft current, and the corresponding vibration signal is shown in Figure 15a. The 
vibration signal was collected from transducer 7 in the structure of Figure 1c at the drive 
end of the generator, with a portable vibration data acquisition system. The vibration amplitude exceeds the vibration criterion of VDI 3834 [33], indicating the unhealthy 
s t a t u s  o f  t h e  t e s t e d  b e a r i n g .  F i g u r e  1 5 b is the Fourier spectrum of Figure 15a, 
accompanied by a series of spectral peaks from 1000 to 4000 Hz. Demodulating the 
vibration signal from 1000 to 2500 Hz, the envelope spectrum is obtained, as shown in in 
Figure 15c, where the fault characteristic fr equencies of outer race of the bearing are 
dominant. These fault characteristic frequencies are in accordance with the faulty bearing 
in Figure 14. 
Figure 13. Broken pinion on high-speed shaft of a wind turbine gearbox.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 14 of 33
5.3. Bearing Fault in the Generator of DFWT
Bearing failures in wind turbine generators are common due to their high rotational
speed, latent misalignment with the gearbox, induced shaft current, insufﬁcient lubrication,
etc. Figure 14 shows an electric corrosion fault of a generator bearing caused by shaft
current, and the corresponding vibration signal is shown in Figure 15a. The vibration signal
was collected from transducer 7 in the structure of Figure 1c at the drive end of the generator,
with a portable vibration data acquisition system. The vibration amplitude exceeds the
vibration criterion of VDI 3834 [ 33], indicating the unhealthy status of the tested bearing.
Figure 15b is the Fourier spectrum of Figure 15a, accompanied by a series of spectral
peaks from 1000 to 4000 Hz. Demodulating the vibration signal from 1000 to 2500 Hz, the
envelope spectrum is obtained, as shown in in Figure 15c, where the fault characteristic
frequencies of outer race of the bearing are dominant. These fault characteristic frequencies
are in accordance with the faulty bearing in Figure 14.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 15 of 35  
 
Figure 14. Electric corrosion of a generator bearing. 
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2−1000100
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 40000510
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/Hz]
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500051015
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/ H z](a)
(b)
(c)
fo(b)
2fo(b)
3fo(b) 4fo(b) 5fo(b)
 
Figure 15. Vibration signal of faulty gene rator bearing at drive end: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) Fourier 
spectrum; ( c) envelope spectrum. 
5.4. Bearing Looseness 
Bearing looseness is a universal phenomenon in wind turbine drivetrains, especially 
for the bearing on the high-speed shaft of a gearbox or the generator bearings with light 
radial loads. Looseness is a complex dynami c action which may cause secondary damage 
to a wind turbine drivetrain, referring to problems such as nonlinear vibration, friction 
and superheating. Figure 16 is the vibration signal of outer race looseness of a 2 MW 
generator bearing. The vibration signal was collected from transducer 8 in the structure 
of Figure 1a, by an online condition monitori ng system. In the temporal signal of Figure 
16a, each rotation of the generator shaft forms an acute shock, indicating a rub between the outer race and bearing housing during one ro tation of the generator shaft. In addition 
to the electromagnetic interference of 100 Hz, the vibration energy covers almost all of the 
frequency band, and the envelope spectrum is  shown in Figure 16c. In Figure 16c, the 
rotational frequencies of the generator shaft extend over ten-order harmonics, in 
accordance with the fault characteristic of bearing looseness [34]. There is obvious scuffing on the outer race of the gene rator bearing, as shown in Figure 17. 
Figure 14. Electric corrosion of a generator bearing.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 15 of 35  
 
Figure 14. Electric corrosion of a generator bearing. 
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2−1000100
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 40000510
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/Hz]
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500051015
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/ H z](a)
(b)
(c)
fo(b)
2fo(b)
3fo(b) 4fo(b) 5fo(b)
 
Figure 15. Vibration signal of faulty gene rator bearing at drive end: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) Fourier 
spectrum; ( c) envelope spectrum. 
5.4. Bearing Looseness 
Bearing looseness is a universal phenomenon in wind turbine drivetrains, especially 
for the bearing on the high-speed shaft of a gearbox or the generator bearings with light 
radial loads. Looseness is a complex dynami c action which may cause secondary damage 
to a wind turbine drivetrain, referring to problems such as nonlinear vibration, friction 
and superheating. Figure 16 is the vibration signal of outer race looseness of a 2 MW 
generator bearing. The vibration signal was collected from transducer 8 in the structure 
of Figure 1a, by an online condition monitori ng system. In the temporal signal of Figure 
16a, each rotation of the generator shaft forms an acute shock, indicating a rub between the outer race and bearing housing during one ro tation of the generator shaft. In addition 
to the electromagnetic interference of 100 Hz, the vibration energy covers almost all of the 
frequency band, and the envelope spectrum is  shown in Figure 16c. In Figure 16c, the 
rotational frequencies of the generator shaft extend over ten-order harmonics, in 
accordance with the fault characteristic of bearing looseness [34]. There is obvious scuffing on the outer race of the gene rator bearing, as shown in Figure 17. 
Figure 15. Vibration signal of faulty generator bearing at drive end: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) Fourier
spectrum; ( c) envelope spectrum.
5.4. Bearing Looseness
Bearing looseness is a universal phenomenon in wind turbine drivetrains, especially
for the bearing on the high-speed shaft of a gearbox or the generator bearings with light
radial loads. Looseness is a complex dynamic action which may cause secondary damage
to a wind turbine drivetrain, referring to problems such as nonlinear vibration, friction
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 15 of 33
and superheating. Figure 16 is the vibration signal of outer race looseness of a 2 MW
generator bearing. The vibration signal was collected from transducer 8 in the structure of
Figure 1a, by an online condition monitoring system. In the temporal signal of Figure 16a ,
each rotation of the generator shaft forms an acute shock, indicating a rub between the
outer race and bearing housing during one rotation of the generator shaft. In addition to
the electromagnetic interference of 100 Hz, the vibration energy covers almost all of the
frequency band, and the envelope spectrum is shown in Figure 16c. In Figure 16c, the
rotational frequencies of the generator shaft extend over ten-order harmonics, in accordance
with the fault characteristic of bearing looseness [ 34]. There is obvious scufﬁng on the outer
race of the generator bearing, as shown in Figure 17.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 16 of 35  
(a)
(b)
(c)
fh2fh3fh4fh5fh
6fh7fh8fh9fh10fh11fh12fh0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2−50510
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 400000.05
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/Hz]
50 100 150 200 250 30000.10.2
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/Hz]100
 
Figure 16. Vibration signal of generator bear ing looseness at nondrive end: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) 
Fourier spectrum; ( c) envelope spectrum. 
 
Figure 17. Scuffing on the outer race of a ge nerator bearing due to looseness. 
5.5. Insufficient Lubrication  of Generator Bearings 
Insufficient lubrication is a key failure incentive of generator bearings. From the 
perspective of vibration analysis, insufficient lubrication will excite the resonance of the 
contact pair involving certain contact stiffness and oil stiffness. Further, the noise floor in 
the Fourier spectrum from 2000 to 5000 Hz is usually high, accompanied by some fault 
characteristic frequencies of bearing, such as rotational frequency, inner race defect frequency, outer race defect frequency or ro lling element defect frequency. Figure 18 
exhibits two cases of insufficient lubrication of generator bearings. The vibration signals 
were both from the drive end of the generator,  transducer 7 in the structure of Figure 1c, 
with an online condition monitoring system. In  the vibration waveform of Figure 18a,d, 
there are periodic fluctuations modulating stochastic high-frequency resonance of the 
contact pair. Thus, the noise floors are dominant  in the Fourier spectrum of Figure 18b,e. 
Figure 18c,f are the envelope spectra of the enclosed frequency bands, where the 
rotational frequencies of generator shafts are demodulated. Compared with the acute 
shocks in Figure 16 of bearing looseness, th e rotational frequency of the generator shaft 
demodulated in insufficient lubrication has less harmonics, from which it can be deduced 
that the eccentricity or unbalance of the generator rotor modulates the high-frequency 
noise of the contact pair caused by insufficient lubrication of the bearing. The noise floor 
is a prominent feature of insufficient lubrication of generator bearings. 
Figure 16. Vibration signal of generator bearing looseness at nondrive end: ( a) temporal signal;
(b) Fourier spectrum; ( c) envelope spectrum.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 16 of 35  
(a)
(b)
(c)
fh2fh3fh4fh5fh
6fh7fh8fh9fh10fh11fh12fh0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2−50510
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 400000.05
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/Hz]
50 100 150 200 250 30000.10.2
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/Hz]100
 
Figure 16. Vibration signal of generator bear ing looseness at nondrive end: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) 
Fourier spectrum; ( c) envelope spectrum. 
 
Figure 17. Scuffing on the outer race of a ge nerator bearing due to looseness. 
5.5. Insufficient Lubrication  of Generator Bearings 
Insufficient lubrication is a key failure incentive of generator bearings. From the 
perspective of vibration analysis, insufficient lubrication will excite the resonance of the 
contact pair involving certain contact stiffness and oil stiffness. Further, the noise floor in 
the Fourier spectrum from 2000 to 5000 Hz is usually high, accompanied by some fault 
characteristic frequencies of bearing, such as rotational frequency, inner race defect frequency, outer race defect frequency or ro lling element defect frequency. Figure 18 
exhibits two cases of insufficient lubrication of generator bearings. The vibration signals 
were both from the drive end of the generator,  transducer 7 in the structure of Figure 1c, 
with an online condition monitoring system. In  the vibration waveform of Figure 18a,d, 
there are periodic fluctuations modulating stochastic high-frequency resonance of the 
contact pair. Thus, the noise floors are dominant  in the Fourier spectrum of Figure 18b,e. 
Figure 18c,f are the envelope spectra of the enclosed frequency bands, where the 
rotational frequencies of generator shafts are demodulated. Compared with the acute 
shocks in Figure 16 of bearing looseness, th e rotational frequency of the generator shaft 
demodulated in insufficient lubrication has less harmonics, from which it can be deduced 
that the eccentricity or unbalance of the generator rotor modulates the high-frequency 
noise of the contact pair caused by insufficient lubrication of the bearing. The noise floor 
is a prominent feature of insufficient lubrication of generator bearings. 
Figure 17. Scufﬁng on the outer race of a generator bearing due to looseness.
5.5. Insufﬁcient Lubrication of Generator Bearings
Insufﬁcient lubrication is a key failure incentive of generator bearings. From the
perspective of vibration analysis, insufﬁcient lubrication will excite the resonance of the
contact pair involving certain contact stiffness and oil stiffness. Further, the noise ﬂoor
in the Fourier spectrum from 2000 to 5000 Hz is usually high, accompanied by some
fault characteristic frequencies of bearing, such as rotational frequency, inner race defect
frequency, outer race defect frequency or rolling element defect frequency. Figure 18
exhibits two cases of insufﬁcient lubrication of generator bearings. The vibration signals
were both from the drive end of the generator, transducer 7 in the structure of Figure 1c ,
with an online condition monitoring system. In the vibration waveform of Figure 18a,d,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 16 of 33
there are periodic ﬂuctuations modulating stochastic high-frequency resonance of the
contact pair. Thus, the noise ﬂoors are dominant in the Fourier spectrum of Figure 18b,e.
Figure 18c,f are the envelope spectra of the enclosed frequency bands, where the rotational
frequencies of generator shafts are demodulated. Compared with the acute shocks in
Figure 16 of bearing looseness, the rotational frequency of the generator shaft demodulated
in insufﬁcient lubrication has less harmonics, from which it can be deduced that the
eccentricity or unbalance of the generator rotor modulates the high-frequency noise of the
contact pair caused by insufﬁcient lubrication of the bearing. The noise ﬂoor is a prominent
feature of insufﬁcient lubrication of generator bearings.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 17 of 35  
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1−50050
t [s]A [m/s2]
1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 600005
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/Hz]
50 100 150 20002040
f [Hz]0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1−20020
t [s]A [m/s2]
1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 600000.511.5
f [Hz]
50 100 150 20005
f [Hz](a)
(b)
(c)(d)
(e)
(f)
fh
2fhfh
2fh
Outer race
Inner raceRollerCage 
Oil film(g) (h)
FS [(m/s2)/Hz] ES [(m/s2)/Hz]ES [(m/s2)/Hz]
 
Figure 18. Insufficient lubrication of generator bearings: ( a) temporal signal of bearing 1; ( b) 
Fourier spectrum of bearing 1; ( c) envelope spectrum of bearing 1; ( d) temporal signal of bearing 2; 
(e) Fourier spectrum of bearing 2; ( f) envelope spectrum of bearing 2; ( g) structure of generator 
bearing; ( h) friction between rolling element, inner race and outer race. 
Figure 18h is the zoom-in view of Figure 18g. Under insufficient lubrication, the oil 
film between the rolling elements and inner race or outer race could be pierced by the 
microcoarse surfaces; thus, the friction of the contact pair is inevitable. Since the oil 
stiffness of different friction positions is st ochastic, the excited resonance frequency is not 
fixed, occupying a wide vibration freque ncy band, as shown in Figure 18b,e. 
6. Challenging Issues and Solutions 
Section 5 shows the fault cases with distinct fault characteristics that can be easily 
detected. For the diagnosis of wind turbine dr ivetrains, more challenging issues need to 
be concerned due to the complex structure of wind turbine gearboxes, varying rotational 
speed, potential electromagnetic interference and intensive background noise, etc. In this 
section, a series of challenging issues in vibration analysis for the fault detection of wind 
turbine drivetrains and the corresponding solu tions are proposed with a perspective of 
published literature and our own understanding. 
6.1. Fault Detection of Planetary Su bassemblies in Wind Turbine Gearbox 
Due to its compact structure and large transmission ratio, planetary gear 
transmission is extensively equipped at th e fore end of wind turbine gearboxes. 
However, the adverse effects caused by planetary stage failure perform far worse than the gear failures in parallel stages. Sinc e the planetary subassem blies, including the 
planet gear, sun gear and planet bearing, are enclosed by the ring gear, the debris from 
faulty gears or bearings always drops into the gap between the planet gear and ring gear, 
not falling into the oil pan like in an parallel-shaft gearbox. Further, the debris may block 
the revolution of the planet gear or planet  carrier, further destroying the planetary 
subassemblies or even the whole wind turbine gearbox, which is shown in Figure 19. 
Figure 18. Insufﬁcient lubrication of generator bearings: ( a) temporal signal of bearing 1; ( b) Fourier
spectrum of bearing 1; ( c) envelope spectrum of bearing 1; ( d) temporal signal of bearing 2; ( e) Fourier
spectrum of bearing 2; ( f) envelope spectrum of bearing 2; ( g) structure of generator bearing; ( h) fric-
tion between rolling element, inner race and outer race.
Figure 18h is the zoom-in view of Figure 18g. Under insufﬁcient lubrication, the oil
ﬁlm between the rolling elements and inner race or outer race could be pierced by the
microcoarse surfaces; thus, the friction of the contact pair is inevitable. Since the oil stiffness
of different friction positions is stochastic, the excited resonance frequency is not ﬁxed,
occupying a wide vibration frequency band, as shown in Figure 18b,e.
6. Challenging Issues and Solutions
Section 5 shows the fault cases with distinct fault characteristics that can be easily
detected. For the diagnosis of wind turbine drivetrains, more challenging issues need to
be concerned due to the complex structure of wind turbine gearboxes, varying rotational
speed, potential electromagnetic interference and intensive background noise, etc. In this
section, a series of challenging issues in vibration analysis for the fault detection of wind
turbine drivetrains and the corresponding solutions are proposed with a perspective of
published literature and our own understanding.
6.1. Fault Detection of Planetary Subassemblies in Wind Turbine Gearbox
Due to its compact structure and large transmission ratio, planetary gear transmission
is extensively equipped at the fore end of wind turbine gearboxes. However, the adverse
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 17 of 33
effects caused by planetary stage failure perform far worse than the gear failures in parallel
stages. Since the planetary subassemblies, including the planet gear, sun gear and planet
bearing, are enclosed by the ring gear, the debris from faulty gears or bearings always
drops into the gap between the planet gear and ring gear, not falling into the oil pan like in
an parallel-shaft gearbox. Further, the debris may block the revolution of the planet gear
or planet carrier, further destroying the planetary subassemblies or even the whole wind
turbine gearbox, which is shown in Figure 19.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 18 of 35  
 
  
Figure 19. Damaged wind turbine gearbox due to planet gears failure. 
Therefore, the fault diagnosis of plan etary subassemblies has attracted wide 
research interests. In a vibration analysis of planetary transmission, the asymmetry of the 
modulation sidebands concerni ng tooth mesh frequency wa s explained [35], which can 
eliminate the confusion when observing the vi bration spectrum. Further, McFadden [36] 
proposed a technique for calculating the time  domain averages of the vibration of the 
individual planet gears and the sun gear in an epicyclic gearbox, in order to enhance the 
r e g u l a r  m e s h  v i b r a t i o n  a n d  c o u n t e r a c t  p o t e n t i a l  n o i s e .  H o n g  e t  a l .  [ 3 7 ]  g a v e  t h e  
explanation of frequency features in an equally spaced planetary gearbox with the aim of 
the fault detection of the sun gear, planet gear and ring gear. For the diagnosis of pure 
planetary gear sets, local mean decomposition, intrinsic time-scale decomposition and ensemble empirical mode decomposition were separately utilized to realize joint 
amplitude and frequency demodulation analysis  for the detection of gear faults [38–40]. 
Wang et al. [41] proposed an optimal demo dulation sub-band selection method for sun 
gear crack fault diagnosis considering the fa ult-related degree of each sub-band. An 
adaptive stochastic resonance method [42] and its combination with ensemble empirical 
mode decomposition [43] were adopted to extract weak fault characteristics from noisy 
signals. Autocorrelation-based time synchronous averaging (ATSA) was proposed to 
solve the signal distortion of conventional TSA and applied for the fault diagnosis of planet gears [44]. Liang et al. [45] developed a windowing and mapping strategy to find 
the weak fault symptom generated by a single cracked tooth in a planet gear. Feng and 
Liang [46] utilized the shift invariant K-means singular value decomposition dictionary 
learning method to suppress background nois e and reveal vibration patterns of planetary 
gearbox vibration signals. 
In a wind turbine gearbox with both planetary and parallel stages, in addition to the 
varying transmission path caused by the revolution of the planet carrier, the fault 
characteristics of planetary subassemblies can be hidden by the mesh energy of the 
intermediate stage, high speed stage or back ground noise. On a scale-down testbed of a 
wind turbine gearbox, Wang et al. [47,48] designed MRgram to find the meshing resonance frequency band in vibration signal s and demodulated the fault characteristic 
of the ring gear. When distributed faults  emerged on the planetary gears, a novel 
modulation phenomenon was demonstrated in  [49], which was described as the mesh 
frequency of the intermediate stage, high speed stage or mechanical natural frequency of 
the gearbox was a carrier wave modulated by the mesh frequency of planetary stage. For the local fault detection of planetary gears in a wind turbine gearbox, Feng and Liang [50] 
applied iterative atomic decomposition thresh olding to enhance the gear characteristic 
frequencies of interest, and verified its effect iveness in the fault detection of the planet 
gear of an on-site wind turbine gearbox. Spectral kurtosis was recognized as a powerful 
tool for the detection of a tooth crack in the ring gear of a wind turbine gearbox [51]. 
Figure 19. Damaged wind turbine gearbox due to planet gears failure.
Therefore, the fault diagnosis of planetary subassemblies has attracted wide research
interests. In a vibration analysis of planetary transmission, the asymmetry of the modula-
tion sidebands concerning tooth mesh frequency was explained [ 35], which can eliminate
the confusion when observing the vibration spectrum. Further, McFadden [ 36] proposed
a technique for calculating the time domain averages of the vibration of the individual
planet gears and the sun gear in an epicyclic gearbox, in order to enhance the regular mesh
vibration and counteract potential noise. Hong et al. [ 37] gave the explanation of frequency
features in an equally spaced planetary gearbox with the aim of the fault detection of
the sun gear, planet gear and ring gear. For the diagnosis of pure planetary gear sets,
local mean decomposition, intrinsic time-scale decomposition and ensemble empirical
mode decomposition were separately utilized to realize joint amplitude and frequency
demodulation analysis for the detection of gear faults [ 38–40]. Wang et al. [ 41] proposed
an optimal demodulation sub-band selection method for sun gear crack fault diagnosis
considering the fault-related degree of each sub-band. An adaptive stochastic resonance
method [ 42] and its combination with ensemble empirical mode decomposition [ 43] were
adopted to extract weak fault characteristics from noisy signals. Autocorrelation-based time
synchronous averaging (ATSA) was proposed to solve the signal distortion of conventional
TSA and applied for the fault diagnosis of planet gears [ 44]. Liang et al. [ 45] developed a
windowing and mapping strategy to ﬁnd the weak fault symptom generated by a single
cracked tooth in a planet gear. Feng and Liang [ 46] utilized the shift invariant K-means
singular value decomposition dictionary learning method to suppress background noise
and reveal vibration patterns of planetary gearbox vibration signals.
In a wind turbine gearbox with both planetary and parallel stages, in addition to the
varying transmission path caused by the revolution of the planet carrier, the fault charac-
teristics of planetary subassemblies can be hidden by the mesh energy of the intermediate
stage, high speed stage or background noise. On a scale-down testbed of a wind turbine
gearbox, Wang et al. [ 47,48] designed MRgram to ﬁnd the meshing resonance frequency
band in vibration signals and demodulated the fault characteristic of the ring gear. When
distributed faults emerged on the planetary gears, a novel modulation phenomenon was
demonstrated in [ 49], which was described as the mesh frequency of the intermediate
stage, high speed stage or mechanical natural frequency of the gearbox was a carrier wave
modulated by the mesh frequency of planetary stage. For the local fault detection of
planetary gears in a wind turbine gearbox, Feng and Liang [ 50] applied iterative atomic
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 18 of 33
decomposition thresholding to enhance the gear characteristic frequencies of interest, and
veriﬁed its effectiveness in the fault detection of the planet gear of an on-site wind turbine
gearbox. Spectral kurtosis was recognized as a powerful tool for the detection of a tooth
crack in the ring gear of a wind turbine gearbox [51].
Planet bearings are another key part in planetary gear transmission, which support
planet gears for autorotation. The fault characteristic of planet bearing is weaker than that
of the bearing supporting ﬁxed-axis gear or rotor because of the long and varying transmis-
sion path from fault source to accelerometer. To solve the particularly difﬁcult diagnostic
problem of planet bearing, Bonnardot et al. [ 52] proposed a combination of unsupervised
noise cancellation and angular resampling to suppress noise and speed ﬂuctuation. Fan
and Li [ 53] pointed out that the internal vibration transducer performed better than the
traditional transducer on the casing in detecting planet bearing fault. Unfortunately, the
current wind turbine gearbox cannot provide locations for internal vibration transducers.
Wang et al. developed SKRgram [ 54] and mesh frequency modulation index-based demod-
ulation techniques [ 55] to ﬁnd the sensitive frequency band hiding fault characteristic of the
planet bearing. Feng et al. [ 56] found that the informative frequency band (including the
center frequency and bandwidth) of the planet bearing fault induced repetitive impulses
using the spectral negentropy-based infogram. The importance of the planet bearing was
investigated in [ 57], and the vibration signatures of planet bearing inner- and outer-race
defects were determined by a dynamic model of a wind turbine planetary drivetrain.
Another common failure of planet bearings in wind turbine gearboxes is looseness,
i.e., the looseness between the inner race and planet carrier, or between the outer race and
planet gear. Looseness of planet bearings will lead to abrasive wear and unsteady support
of the planet gear, causing destructive results for the wind turbine gearbox. In order to
avoid the looseness of planet bearings, the structure of the planet bearing is improved from
Figure 20a,b without inner race and outer race.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 19 of 35  
Planet bearings are another key part in planetary gear transmission, which support 
planet gears for autorotation. The fault characteristic of planet bearing is weaker than 
that of the bearing supporting fixed-axis gear or rotor because of the long and varying 
transmission path from fault source to accele rometer. To solve the particularly difficult 
diagnostic problem of planet bearing, Bonnard ot et al. [52] proposed a combination of 
unsupervised noise cancellation and angular resampling to suppress noise and speed 
fluctuation. Fan and Li [53] pointed out that  the internal vibration transducer performed 
better than the traditional transducer on the casing in detecting planet bearing fault. 
Unfortunately, the current wind turbine ge arbox cannot provide locations for internal 
vibration transducers. Wang et al. deve loped SKRgram [54] and mesh frequency 
modulation index-based demodu lation techniques [55] to find the sensitive frequency 
band hiding fault characteristic of the planet bearing. Feng et al. [56] found that the informative frequency band (including the center frequency and bandwidth) of the 
planet bearing fault induced repetitive impulses using th e spectral negentropy-based 
infogram. The importance of the planet be aring was investigated in [57], and the 
vibration signatures of planet bearing inner- and outer-race defects were determined by a 
dynamic model of a wind turbine planetary drivetrain. 
Another common failure of planet bearings in wind turbine gearboxes is looseness, 
i.e., the looseness between the inner race and planet carrier, or between the outer race and 
planet gear. Looseness of planet bearings will lead to abrasive wear and unsteady 
support of the planet gear, causing destructiv e results for the wind turbine gearbox. In 
order to avoid the looseness of planet bearin gs, the structure of the planet bearing is 
improved from Figure 20a to Figure 20b without inner race and outer race. 
(a) (b)
 
Figure 20. Comparison of planet bearings: ( a) original bearing; ( b) improved bearing. 
The following are two naturally damaged fault cases of planetary subassemblies in a 
wind turbine gearbox. 
6.1.1. Local Fault of Planet Gear 
Figure 21a shows the vibration signal from a 750 kW wind turbine gearbox with 
chipped planet gears, as shown in Figure 22. The vibration amplitudes are low, within ±4 
m/s2. In the Fourier spectrum of Figure 21b, th e mesh frequency of the high-speed stage 
and its harmonics are the dominant frequencies, and the mesh frequency of the planetary 
stage takes a back seat. Figure 21c is the zoom-in view of Figure 21b between 23 and 54 
Hz, where some sidebands stand around the mesh frequency of planetary stage. By 
demodulating the frequency band between 23  and 30 Hz, the envelope spectrum can be 
shown in Figure 21d where the rotational frequency fc of the planet carrier and its 
harmonics is distinct. Simultaneously, the fault frequencies ()p
p c f f− and ()2p
p c f f+  
indicating local fault of the planet gear appear clearly, which matches the chipped teeth 
in Figure 22. Here ()2/p
p PS p f fZ= . From this case, we can see that although chipped teeth 
fault emerges on the planet gear, its fault char acteristic frequency is so weak even if the 
frequency bands near the me sh frequency of the planetary stage are considered. 
Figure 20. Comparison of planet bearings: ( a) original bearing; ( b) improved bearing.
The following are two naturally damaged fault cases of planetary subassemblies in a
wind turbine gearbox.
6.1.1. Local Fault of Planet Gear
Figure 21a shows the vibration signal from a 750 kW wind turbine gearbox with
chipped planet gears, as shown in Figure 22. The vibration amplitudes are low, within
4 m/s2. In the Fourier spectrum of Figure 21b, the mesh frequency of the high-speed
stage and its harmonics are the dominant frequencies, and the mesh frequency of the
planetary stage takes a back seat. Figure 21c is the zoom-in view of Figure 21b between 23
and 54 Hz, where some sidebands stand around the mesh frequency of planetary stage. By
demodulating the frequency band between 23 and 30 Hz, the envelope spectrum can be
shown in Figure 21d where the rotational frequency fcof the planet carrier and its harmonics
is distinct. Simultaneously, the fault frequencies f(p)
p fcand f(p)
p+2fcindicating local
fault of the planet gear appear clearly, which matches the chipped teeth in Figure 22. Here
f(p)
p=2fPS/Zp. From this case, we can see that although chipped teeth fault emerges on
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 19 of 33
the planet gear, its fault characteristic frequency is so weak even if the frequency bands
near the mesh frequency of the planetary stage are considered.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 20 of 35  
0 10 20 30−505
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 150001234
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/ Hz ]25 30 35 40 45 5000.20.4
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/ Hz ]
0.5 1 1.5 200.050.10.150.2
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/Hz ](a)
(b)(c)
(d)
2fHSS
3fHSS fHSSfPS
2fPSfc2fc
3fcfp(p)-fc
fp(p)+2fcfPS2fPS
 
Figure 21. Vibration signal of chipped teeth of planet gear: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) Fourier 
spectrum; ( c) Fourier spectrum near the mesh frequency of planetary stage; ( d) envelope spectrum. 
 
Figure 22. Chipped teeth of planet gear in a wind turbine gearbox. 
6.1.2. Distributed Fault of Planetary Stage 
A distributed fault case of planetary stage in a wind turbine gearbox is shown in 
Figure 23. There are weak indentations on the ring gear and severe pitting on the planet 
gear. The teeth surfaces of the sun gear are squashed, and pitting emerges on the rolling elements of the planet bearing. 
Figure 21. Vibration signal of chipped teeth of planet gear: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) Fourier spectrum;
(c) Fourier spectrum near the mesh frequency of planetary stage; ( d) envelope spectrum.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 20 of 35  
0 10 20 30−505
t [s]A [m/s2]
500 1000 150001234
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/ Hz ]25 30 35 40 45 5000.20.4
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/ Hz ]
0.5 1 1.5 200.050.10.150.2
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2)/Hz ](a)
(b)(c)
(d)
2fHSS
3fHSS fHSSfPS
2fPSfc2fc
3fcfp(p)-fc
fp(p)+2fcfPS2fPS
 
Figure 21. Vibration signal of chipped teeth of planet gear: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) Fourier 
spectrum; ( c) Fourier spectrum near the mesh frequency of planetary stage; ( d) envelope spectrum. 
 
Figure 22. Chipped teeth of planet gear in a wind turbine gearbox. 
6.1.2. Distributed Fault of Planetary Stage 
A distributed fault case of planetary stage in a wind turbine gearbox is shown in 
Figure 23. There are weak indentations on the ring gear and severe pitting on the planet 
gear. The teeth surfaces of the sun gear are squashed, and pitting emerges on the rolling elements of the planet bearing. 
Figure 22. Chipped teeth of planet gear in a wind turbine gearbox.
6.1.2. Distributed Fault of Planetary Stage
A distributed fault case of planetary stage in a wind turbine gearbox is shown in
Figure 23. There are weak indentations on the ring gear and severe pitting on the planet
gear. The teeth surfaces of the sun gear are squashed, and pitting emerges on the rolling
elements of the planet bearing.
The vibration signal from faulty planetary subassemblies is shown in Figure 24a where
the stochastic component and shock component mix together. The Fourier spectrum of
the vibration signal is shown in Figure 24b. The mesh frequency fPSof the planetary stage
and its harmonics occupy almost all of the spectrum from low frequency to high frequency,
accompanied by the weaker mesh frequency fISof the intermediate stage. The phenomenon
can be interpreted as: the worn or deformed surfaces of planetary subassemblies change
the meshing stiffness of the planetary stage, which enhances the vibration energy during
the planet gear meshing with the sun gear and ring gear. In addition to the fPSand fIS, other
fault information cannot be detected. Then, the signal in Figure 24a is decomposed into a
high quality factor (high Q) component, low Q component and noise, by referring to the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 20 of 33
tunable Q-factor wavelet transform [ 58], and resonance-based sparse decomposition [ 59].
In the high Q component of Figure 24c, there are regular ﬂuctuations with intervals of
0.76 s (1.315 Hz), denoting three times the rotational frequency of the planet carrier. This
interval in the high Q component indicates potential distributed defects on the ring gear.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 21 of 35  
 
 
 
(a) ( b) 
 
  
(c) ( d) 
Figure 23. Distributed fault of planetary subassemblies in an 850 kW wind turbine gearbox: ( a) ring 
gear; ( b) pitting planet gear; ( c) deformed sun gear; ( d) pitting rolling elements of planet bearing. 
The vibration signal from faulty planetar y subassemblies is shown in Figure 24a 
where the stochastic component and shoc k component mix together. The Fourier 
spectrum of the vibration signal is sh own in Figure 24b. The mesh frequency fPS of the 
planetary stage and its harmonics occupy almost all of the spectrum from low frequency 
to high frequency, accompanied by the weaker mesh frequency fIS of the intermediate 
stage. The phenomenon can be interpreted as: the worn or deformed surfaces of 
planetary subassemblies change the meshing stiffness of the planetary stage, which 
enhances the vibration energy during the planet  gear meshing with the sun gear and ring 
gear. In addition to the fPS and fIS, other fault information cannot be detected. Then, the 
signal in Figure 24a is decomposed into a hi gh quality factor (high Q) component, low Q 
component and noise, by referring to the tu nable Q-factor wavelet transform [58], and 
resonance-based sparse decomposition [59]. In the high Q component of Figure 24c, there 
are regular fluctuations with intervals of 0.76 s (1.315 Hz), denoting three times the 
rotational frequency of the planet carrier. Th is interval in the high Q component indicates 
potential distributed defects on the ring gear. 
Figure 23. Distributed fault of planetary subassemblies in an 850 kW wind turbine gearbox: ( a) ring
gear; ( b) pitting planet gear; ( c) deformed sun gear; ( d) pitting rolling elements of planet bearing.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 22 of 35  
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)0 5 10 15 20 25−40−2002040
t [s]A [m/s2]
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500024
f [Hz]FS [(m/s2)/Hz]
0 5 10 15 20 25−20020
t [s]A [m/s2]
0 5 10 15 20 25−20020
t [s]A [m/s2]
0 5 10 15 20 25−202
t [s]A [m/s2](e)0.76 0.76 0.76fPS and its harmonics
fIS 
 
Figure 24. Demodulation results by resonance-based sparse decomposition: ( a) vibration signal 
from faulty planetary subassemblies; ( b) Fourier spectrum; ( c) high Q component; ( d) low Q 
component; ( e) noise component. 
Gear or bearing faults generally exhibit low Q-factor properties; thus, the low Q 
component in Figure 24d is decomposed into a series of wavelet coefficients which are 
further re-constructed into the correspon ding sub-band signal s. The normalized 
enveloping spectrogram of these sub-band sign als is shown in Figure  25 where the fault 
characteristic frequencies ()p
sf, ()2p
sf, ()/3p
sf , ()()p
s s f f−  and ()(2 )p
s s f f−  denoting 
the sun gear fault are detected. ()()pb
rcf f−  denoting the rolling element fault of planet 
bearing appears, and the frequency ()p
pf denoting the planet gear fault is found as well. 
Here, ()/p
p PS p f fZ= . All the fault characteristic frequencies are in accordance with the 
faulty subassemblies in Figure 23. This case [60] demonstrates that the signal separation 
technique is effective in detecting the fault information of planetary subassemblies hidden in complex noise. 
From the analysis of the research above, spectral kurtosis and its variants are 
beneficial to extract the local fault features  of planetary gears in real wind turbine 
gearboxes with multistage gear transmission . Resonance-based sparse decomposition is 
effective in excluding the interference from the meshing vibration caused by the 
intermediate stage or high-speed stage, so  that the distributed fault of planetary 
subassemblies can be extracted. 
Figure 24. Demodulation results by resonance-based sparse decomposition: ( a) vibration signal from
faulty planetary subassemblies; ( b) Fourier spectrum; ( c) high Q component; ( d) low Q component;
(e) noise component.
Gear or bearing faults generally exhibit low Q-factor properties; thus, the low Q
component in Figure 24d is decomposed into a series of wavelet coefﬁcients which are
further re-constructed into the corresponding sub-band signals. The normalized enveloping
spectrogram of these sub-band signals is shown in Figure 25 where the fault characteristic
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 21 of 33
frequencies f(p)
s,2f(p)
s,f(p)
s/3,(f(p)
s fs)and (2f(p)
s fs)denoting the sun gear fault are
detected. (f(pb)
r fc)denoting the rolling element fault of planet bearing appears, and
the frequency f(p)
pdenoting the planet gear fault is found as well. Here, f(p)
p=fPS/Zp.
All the fault characteristic frequencies are in accordance with the faulty subassemblies in
Figure 23 . This case [ 60] demonstrates that the signal separation technique is effective in
detecting the fault information of planetary subassemblies hidden in complex noise.
From the analysis of the research above, spectral kurtosis and its variants are bene-
ﬁcial to extract the local fault features of planetary gears in real wind turbine gearboxes
with multistage gear transmission. Resonance-based sparse decomposition is effective in
excluding the interference from the meshing vibration caused by the intermediate stage or
high-speed stage, so that the distributed fault of planetary subassemblies can be extracted.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 23 of 35  
  
0 5 10 15 205
10
15
20
25
30
35
40 00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91
f [Hz]Stagefc
f (p)
s
f (pb)
r−fc
f (p)
pf (p)
s−fs
f (p)/3s2f (p)
s
2f (p)−fs s
 
Figure 25. Normalized multistage enveloping spectrogram of low component. 
6.2. Fault Feature Extraction under Nonstationary Conditions 
Wind turbines operate under nonstationar y conditions due to varying stochastic 
wind speeds; thus, time-frequency analysis for vibration signals from wind turbine drivetrains is attractive. In [61], some time-frequency algorithms that could be used for 
the analysis of vibration signals of wi nd turbine drivetrains were reviewed. 
Time-frequency representation and order an alysis are primary methods for the fault 
detection of wind turbine drivetrains under nonstationary conditions. 
For the vibration signal of a wind turbine gearbox, multicomponent modulation 
sidebands indicating gears or bearings defect are common, which causes some 
restrictions to wind turbines while applying  conventional time-frequency representation. 
A general framework for parameterized time -frequency transforms was presented by 
Yang et al. [62]. Under this framework, when  spline-kernel chirplet transform (SCT) was 
selected, it was more accurate than ot her methods for estimating the varying 
instantaneous frequency of mono-compo nent signals [63]. Considering the 
multicomponent property of wind turbine vibration signals, an improved SCT was 
developed in [64] with a view to extract the instantaneous amplitude of a multicomponent signal at fault-related frequencies of interest. Guan et al. [65] used 
generalized demodulation to demodulate a sign al into several signals based on the shaft 
rotational speed to meet the constant-frequen cy requirement of bilinear distribution, and 
applied Cohen’s class bilinear distribution to obtain the time-frequency representation of 
the demodulated signals. This method wa s effective in planetary gearboxes under 
time-varying speed and fixed external load conditions. The original vibration signal of a 
planetary gearbox could be decomposed into  multiple mono-components by iterative 
generalized demodulation [66], and was realized by time-frequency demodulation 
analysis. Synchrosqueezing transform was improved using iterative generalized 
demodulation [67] to identify multicomponent and time-variant frequency signals from a 
planetary gearbox under nonstationary cond itions. Optimal kernel time-frequency 
analysis [68], Vold-Kalman filter and higher order energy separation [69] and iterative 
generalized time-frequency reassignment [70]  were developed in succession by Feng’s 
team to exhibit the time-frequency represen tation of vibration si gnals from a faulty 
planetary gearbox under nonstationary conditions. A positive energy residual method 
based on wavelet transform [71] and Gaussian process was proposed by Park et al. [72] to 
remove the variability of signals while detectin g faults of a planetary gear under variable 
speed conditions. An iterative generalized de modulation-based orde r spectrum analysis 
Figure 25. Normalized multistage enveloping spectrogram of low component.
6.2. Fault Feature Extraction under Nonstationary Conditions
Wind turbines operate under nonstationary conditions due to varying stochastic wind
speeds; thus, time-frequency analysis for vibration signals from wind turbine drivetrains is
attractive. In [ 61], some time-frequency algorithms that could be used for the analysis of
vibration signals of wind turbine drivetrains were reviewed. Time-frequency representation
and order analysis are primary methods for the fault detection of wind turbine drivetrains
under nonstationary conditions.
For the vibration signal of a wind turbine gearbox, multicomponent modulation side-
bands indicating gears or bearings defect are common, which causes some restrictions
to wind turbines while applying conventional time-frequency representation. A general
framework for parameterized time-frequency transforms was presented by Yang et al. [ 62].
Under this framework, when spline-kernel chirplet transform (SCT) was selected, it was
more accurate than other methods for estimating the varying instantaneous frequency of
mono-component signals [ 63]. Considering the multicomponent property of wind turbine
vibration signals, an improved SCT was developed in [ 64] with a view to extract the in-
stantaneous amplitude of a multicomponent signal at fault-related frequencies of interest.
Guan et al. [ 65] used generalized demodulation to demodulate a signal into several signals
based on the shaft rotational speed to meet the constant-frequency requirement of bilinear
distribution, and applied Cohen’s class bilinear distribution to obtain the time-frequency
representation of the demodulated signals. This method was effective in planetary gear-
boxes under time-varying speed and ﬁxed external load conditions. The original vibration
signal of a planetary gearbox could be decomposed into multiple mono-components by
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 22 of 33
iterative generalized demodulation [ 66], and was realized by time-frequency demodulation
analysis. Synchrosqueezing transform was improved using iterative generalized demodu-
lation [ 67] to identify multicomponent and time-variant frequency signals from a planetary
gearbox under nonstationary conditions. Optimal kernel time-frequency analysis [ 68],
Vold-Kalman ﬁlter and higher order energy separation [ 69] and iterative generalized time-
frequency reassignment [ 70] were developed in succession by Feng’s team to exhibit the
time-frequency representation of vibration signals from a faulty planetary gearbox under
nonstationary conditions. A positive energy residual method based on wavelet trans-
form [ 71] and Gaussian process was proposed by Park et al. [ 72] to remove the variability
of signals while detecting faults of a planetary gear under variable speed conditions. An it-
erative generalized demodulation-based order spectrum analysis method was exploited to
convert arbitrary instantaneous frequency trajectories of multicomponent signals into con-
stant frequency lines [ 73], which can effectively reveal the harmonic order constituents of
nonstationary multicomponent signals from faulty planetary gearboxes. A tacholess track-
ing method termed dual path optimization ridge estimation was proposed to detect planet
bearing defects in a planetary gearbox under varying speed operation [ 74]. Hong et al. [ 75]
proposed a tacholess diagnostic technique based on the optimal warping path evaluated
from the fast dynamic time-warping algorithm, which can identify fault information of the
sun gear and annulus gear in a wind turbine gearbox under speed ﬂuctuations.
For the parts except planetary gears in a wind turbine gearbox, nonstationary analysis
methods were addressed as well. A discrete spectrum correction technique-based order
tracking method was proposed by He et al. [ 76] to ﬁnd the misalignment of the output
shaft in a wind turbine gearbox from the long nonstationary vibration signal. Li et al. [ 77]
incorporated variational mode decomposition into convolutive blind-source separation to
address the challenge of substantial driving-speed variations in bearing fault detection in a
wind turbine gearbox. Antoniadou et al. [ 78] found gear faults in the intermediate stage and
high-speed stage under varying load conditions in a wind turbine gearbox using empirical
mode decomposition and a Teager–Kaiser energy operator. A gear parameter identiﬁcation
method was proposed in [ 79] to determine the numbers of teeth in a wind turbine gearbox
with one planetary and two helical parallel stages under varying speed, which can be
used for carrying out vibration-based fault diagnosis. A review on the angular resampling
algorithm for application in conditions of high-speed variability in wind turbines was
presented to develop a wind turbine diagnostic system [ 80]. In direct-drive wind turbines,
the bearings with low rotational speed are subject to varying operational conditions;
Pezzani et al. [ 81] proposed a resampling technique that determined the rotor position
by the phase-locked loop synchronized generator voltages, which was applied for the
vibration-based fault detection of a bearing in a permanent magnet synchronous generator.
It is noteworthy that during a vibration test within a relatively short duration (e.g.,
over 16 s for main bearings and planetary stage; 4 s for intermediate stage, high-speed
stage and generator bearings), wind turbines keep an approximately constant rotational
speed due to the huge inertia of rotor system with heavy blades. Comparatively speaking,
nonstationary signal processing is more suitable for the vibration analysis of main bearings
and planetary gears with lower rotational speed, because the rotational speeds of these parts
are prone to variation during longer sampling durations. Apparently, the time-frequency
analysis of multicomponent with high time-frequency concentration is a promising tool to
diagnose low-speed mechanical parts.
6.3. Fault Information Enhancement of Vibration Signal
Harsh operational environment and complex structures cause numerous disturbances
to the measured vibration signal collected from wind turbine drivetrains. Techniques of
fault information enhancement need to be developed to detect weak fault features masked
in intensive interferences or noise.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 23 of 33
6.3.1. Compound Faults in Wind Turbine Gearbox
Wind turbine gearbox consists of multiple gears and bearings, so that compound
faults are extremely frequent due to the dynamic coupling among diverse parts. Faulty
bearing may lead to insufﬁcient stiffness to support the shaft with gears so that the shaft
may tilt. The torque transmitted by the whole face width of the meshed gear pair is
now transmitted by partial face width; thus, the gear pair is prone to breakage. A failure
case [ 82] including rear bearing and a gear pair of the high-speed stage in a wind turbine
gearbox is shown in Figure 26. In this type of compound fault, gear faults commonly
cause intensive vibration, easily hiding the fault feature of bearing. The vibration signal
from the failure case is shown in Figure 27a; complex Gaussian wavelet transform [ 71] is
utilized to decompose the vibration signal at different scales. The multiscale enveloping
spectrogram (MuSEnS) [ 83] after complex wavelet transform is shown in Figure 27b, where
fidenoting the faulty wheel on the intermediate shaft and fhdenoting the faulty pinion
on the high-speed shaft are clear. In the slice at scale 20 in Figure 27c, the fault frequency
f(b)
idenoting the inner race fault of the rear bearing on the high-speed shaft emerges but
is covered by the rotational frequencies of the intermediate shaft and high-speed shaft
denoting the gear fault. After the cepstrum pre-whiting analysis [ 84] for the original signal,
the MuSEnS is shown in Figure 27d . From the slice at the same scale, the f(b)
iis dominant
among its neighboring frequency components in Figure 27e because of the suppression
effect of cepstrum pre-whiting for the meshing vibration of the faulty gear pair.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 25 of 35  
from the failure case is shown in Figure 27a; complex Gaussian wavelet transform [71] is 
utilized to decompose the vibration signal at different scales. The multiscale enveloping 
spectrogram (MuSEnS) [83] after complex wavelet transform is shown in Figure 27b, 
where fi denoting the faulty wheel on the intermediate shaft and fh denoting the faulty 
pinion on the high-speed shaft are clear. In the slice at scale 20 in Figure 27c, the fault 
frequency ()b
if denoting the inner race fault of the rear bearing on the high-speed shaft 
emerges but is covered by the rotational frequencies of the intermediate shaft and 
high-speed shaft denoting the gear fault. Afte r the cepstrum pre-whiting analysis [84] for 
the original signal, the MuSEnS is shown in Figure 27d. From the slice at the same scale, 
the ()b
if is dominant among its neighboring frequency components in Figure 27e 
because of the suppression effe ct of cepstrum pre-whiting for the meshing vibration of 
the faulty gear pair. 
Generator
High speed shaft
Intermediate shaft
 
Figure 26. Failure mechanism of compound faults in a wind turbine gearbox. 
50 100 150 200 250 300 35002468101214
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2) /Hz]
50 100 150 200 250 300 350024681012
f [Hz](b) (c)
(d) (e)0 1 2 3 4 5 6−200−1000100200
t [s]A [m/s2](a)
f (b)
if (b)
i
fifh 2fh3fh4fh5fh6fh7fh8fh
9fh10fh11fh12fhfh2fh3fh4fh5fh6fh7fh8fh
9fh10fh11fh12fh
2fi
3fifi2fi
3fi
ES [(m/s2)/ H z]
 
Figure 27. Multiscale enveloping spectrogram: ( a) vibration signal from faulty gear pair and rear 
bearing; ( b) MuSEnS before cepstrum pre-whitening; ( c) slice of the MuSEnS at scale 20; ( d) 
MuSEnS after cepstrum pre-whitening; ( e) slice of the MuSEnS at scale 20. 
Figure 26. Failure mechanism of compound faults in a wind turbine gearbox.
In the situation of multiple gear failure, the fault information of the defective gear
with a lower rotational frequency is generally concealed by the one with a higher rotational
frequency. MuSEnS is still effective in exhibiting the fault characteristic frequencies of the
cracked gear on the sun shaft and the broken gear on the intermediate shaft, at different
scales [ 85]. Sparse feature identiﬁcation based on union of redundant dictionary [ 86] was
presented to separate the fault information of the gear on the intermediate shaft from the
fault feature of misalignment of the high-speed shaft in a wind turbine gearbox.
6.3.2. Signal Decomposition Methods
Signal decomposition techniques enable the decomposition of the vibration signal into
a series of sub-band signals, automatically locating fault frequency bands and manifesting
fault information from potential interferences or noise. Teng et al. [ 87] applied the classic
empirical mode decomposition to ﬁnd the fault characteristics of pitting in the gear pair
of the high-speed stage in a wind turbine gearbox. Liu et al. [ 88] used the local mean
decomposition (LMD) to decompose the vibration signal into a set of functions, each
of which was the product of an envelope signal and a frequency modulated signal. The
instantaneous frequency from the frequency modulated signal was identiﬁed as an indicator
of crack faults of gear on the high-speed shaft. To suppress the end effect of LMD, an
integral extension LMD based on the integral local waveform matching of the right and
left side of the original signal [ 89] was presented for wind turbine ball bearing fault
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 24 of 33
diagnosis. Wang et al. [ 90] utilized ensemble empirical mode decomposition to decompose
one-channel vibration measurements into a series of intrinsic mode functions as pseudo-
multichannel signals, and performed independent component analysis on the intrinsic
mode function to separate bearing defect-related signals from gear meshing signals in a
wind turbine gearbox. Hu et al. [ 91] applied ensemble intrinsic time-scale decomposition,
wavelet packet decomposition and correlation dimension to identify different fault types
of wind turbine gearbox. As a recently proposed signal processing method, empirical
wavelet transform was used to extract inherent modulation information by decomposing
the signal into mono-components and identifying fault features of generator bearing in
a wind turbine [ 92]. A parameterless empirical wavelet transform without any prior
knowledge was introduced and applied for the multifault extraction of generator bearing
in a wind turbine [93].
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 25 of 35  
from the failure case is shown in Figure 27a; complex Gaussian wavelet transform [71] is 
utilized to decompose the vibration signal at different scales. The multiscale enveloping 
spectrogram (MuSEnS) [83] after complex wavelet transform is shown in Figure 27b, 
where fi denoting the faulty wheel on the intermediate shaft and fh denoting the faulty 
pinion on the high-speed shaft are clear. In the slice at scale 20 in Figure 27c, the fault 
frequency ()b
if denoting the inner race fault of the rear bearing on the high-speed shaft 
emerges but is covered by the rotational frequencies of the intermediate shaft and 
high-speed shaft denoting the gear fault. Afte r the cepstrum pre-whiting analysis [84] for 
the original signal, the MuSEnS is shown in Figure 27d. From the slice at the same scale, 
the ()b
if is dominant among its neighboring frequency components in Figure 27e 
because of the suppression effe ct of cepstrum pre-whiting for the meshing vibration of 
the faulty gear pair. 
Generator
High speed shaft
Intermediate shaft
 
Figure 26. Failure mechanism of compound faults in a wind turbine gearbox. 
50 100 150 200 250 300 35002468101214
f [Hz]ES [(m/s2) /Hz]
50 100 150 200 250 300 350024681012
f [Hz](b) (c)
(d) (e)0 1 2 3 4 5 6−200−1000100200
t [s]A [m/s2](a)
f (b)
if (b)
i
fifh 2fh3fh4fh5fh6fh7fh8fh
9fh10fh11fh12fhfh2fh3fh4fh5fh6fh7fh8fh
9fh10fh11fh12fh
2fi
3fifi2fi
3fi
ES [(m/s2)/ H z]
 
Figure 27. Multiscale enveloping spectrogram: ( a) vibration signal from faulty gear pair and rear 
bearing; ( b) MuSEnS before cepstrum pre-whitening; ( c) slice of the MuSEnS at scale 20; ( d) 
MuSEnS after cepstrum pre-whitening; ( e) slice of the MuSEnS at scale 20. 
Figure 27. Multiscale enveloping spectrogram: ( a) vibration signal from faulty gear pair and rear
bearing; ( b) MuSEnS before cepstrum pre-whitening; ( c) slice of the MuSEnS at scale 20; ( d) MuSEnS
after cepstrum pre-whitening; ( e) slice of the MuSEnS at scale 20.
6.3.3. Bearing Fault in Wind Turbine Generator under Intensive Interference
Electromagnetic vibration is a common phenomenon acting on the hollow stator of
a wind turbine generator, because of the structure with low weight and stiffness in high
altitude. The principle of electromagnetic vibration is shown in Figure 28 [ 94]. With
the input of three phase currents in Figure 28a, a rotational magnetic ﬁeld emerges at
a synchronous speed of current frequency. The two poles of the magnetic ﬁeld attract
each other, which can cause stator deformation. During the half period of alternating
current from b to e in Figure 28a, the deformation varies, shown in Figure 28b–e. These
deformations have a modulation effect on the vibration signal shown in Figure 28f, and the
demodulated frequency of 100 Hz and its harmonic are distinct in Figure 28g.
A vibration signal from a faulty bearing at the drive end of a wind turbine generator
is shown in Figure 29a. The signal is polluted by the electromagnetic vibration. The cyclic
coherence function [ 95], which can enhance the amplitudes at cyclic frequency denoting
fault frequency and restrain those at cyclic frequency denoting noise, was utilized to extract
the fault characteristic of bearing [ 94]. The cyclic coherence function of the vibration signal
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 25 of 33
in Figure 29a is shown in Figure 29b where the fault characteristic frequency f(b)
iof the
inner race is obvious among the electromagnetic vibration of 100 Hz and its harmonics. The
faulty inner race of the bearing is shown in Figure 29c. The cyclic coherence function was
also adopted for the diagnosis of compound fault features under strong rotor imbalance,
including the inner race and outer race of the bearing in the wind turbine generator [96].
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW  27 of 35  
(e)
NS N
S(b) (c) (d)i
biA iB iC (a)
ce
d
X
AZC
YBX
AZC
YBX
AZC
YBX
AZC
YBωt in
out
zero
0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
0.23 0.235 0.24 0.245 0.25 0.255 0.26 0.265 0.27 0.275−20−10010(f)A [m/s2]
t [s]
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 5000123
f [Hz](g)
100
200ES [(m/s2)/Hz]
 
Figure 28. Electromagnetic vibration of generator stator: ( a) three phase alternating currents; ( b) 
deformation at time b; ( c) deformation at time c; ( d) deformation at time d; ( e) deform ation at time 
e; (f) modulated vibration signal; ( g) demodulat ed electromagnetic vibration.  
(b)
(c)0 1 2 3 4 5 6−5000500(a)A [m/s2]
 [Hz]f [Hz]
  
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 4500200040006000800010,00012,000
0.050.10.150.2t [s]
f (b)
i
 
Figure 29. Vibration analysis of a faulty bearing signal: (a) faulty vibration signal polluted by elec-
tromagnetic vibration; ( b) cyclic coherence function of the vibration signal; ( c) faulty inner race of 
the bearing . 
Figure 28. Electromagnetic vibration of generator stator: ( a) three phase alternating currents; ( b) de-
formation at time b; ( c) deformation at time c; ( d) deformation at time d; ( e) deformation at time e;
(f) modulated vibration signal; ( g) demodulated electromagnetic vibration.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 27 of 35  
cyclic coherence function was also adopted fo r the diagnosis of compound fault features 
under strong rotor imbalance, including the in ner race and outer race of the bearing in 
the wind turbine generator [96]. 
(e)
NS N
S
(b) (c) (d)i
biA iB iC (a)
ce
d
X
AZC
YBX
AZC
YBX
AZC
YBX
AZC
YBωt in
out
zero
0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
0.23 0.235 0.24 0.245 0.25 0.255 0.26 0.265 0.27 0.275−20−10010(f)A [m/s2]
t [s]
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 5000123
f [Hz](g)
100
200ES [(m/s2)/ H z]
 
Figure 28. Electromagnetic vibration of generator stator: ( a) three phase alternating currents; ( b) 
deformation at time b; ( c) deformation at time c; ( d) deformation at time d; ( e) deformation at time 
e; (f) modulated vibration signal; ( g) demodulated electromagnetic vibration. 
(b)
(c)0 1 2 3 4 5 6−5000500(a)A [m/s2]
α [Hz]f [Hz]
  
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 4500200040006000800010,00012,000
0.050.10.150.2t [s]
f (b)
i
 
Figure 29. Vibration analysis of a faulty bearing signal: ( a) faulty vibration signal polluted by
electromagnetic vibration; ( b) cyclic coherence function of the vibration signal; ( c) faulty inner race of
the bearing.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 26 of 33
6.3.4. Denoising for Fault Enhancement
Noise is not to be neglected in wind turbine drivetrains, which may interfere with
the extraction of fault characteristics. Sun et al. [ 97] applied a multiwavelet denoising
technique with a data-driven block threshold for the fault detection of the rolling bearing
with a slight inner race defect in a wind turbine generator. The usage of the minimum
entropy deconvolution technique has shown a strong enhancement in the fault detection
of an inner race fault in wind turbine generators [ 98]. The Morlet wavelet [ 71], whose
shape was similar to mechanical fault signals, was chosen as a denoising tool for the raw
vibration signals from a wind turbine gearbox [ 99,100]. A denoising and feature extraction
method was developed [ 101] by adding empirical mode decomposition and autocorrelation
denoising to the wavelet package transform under the effects of white noise and short-
term disturbance noise in wind turbine vibration signals. Li et al. [ 102] presented a new
noise-controlled second-order enhanced stochastic resonance method based on the Morlet
wavelet transform to extract fault features for wind turbine vibration signals. A frequency-
shift multiscale noise tuning stochastic resonance method [ 103] was proposed to enhance
weak signal features in the fault diagnosis of generator bearing in wind turbines. A cross
genetic algorithm optimal Mexican-hat wavelet [ 71] was proposed, which can be used for
weak feature extraction from the strong background noise in a wind turbine gearbox [ 104].
Hong and Dhupia [ 105] developed a new time-domain fault detection method combining
fast dynamic time wrapping as well as correlated kurtosis to characterize the local gear
fault in a planetary gearbox, which is beneﬁcial in practical analysis to highlight sideband
patterns in situations where data are often contaminated by process/measurement noises.
Li et al. [ 106] presented a new method based on the supervised order tracking bounded
component analysis for gear crack detection in wind turbines, which incorporated order
tracking to eliminate noise and disturbance signal components.
In summary, fault information enhancement plays a signiﬁcant role in the fault de-
tection of wind turbine drivetrains. Multiscale envelope, signal decomposition, cyclic
coherence function and signal denoising are the critical solutions while encountering the
vibration signal with multipart faults under intensive background noise.
6.4. Health Indicator for Vibration-Based Condition Monitoring
Vibration-based condition monitoring not only helps maintainers to diagnose the
mechanical components of wind turbines but provides health indicators which can assist
remaining life prediction. Shanbr et al. pointed out that energy index was a superior
indicator, representing the crack severity and progress of wind turbine bearing [ 107], which
was deﬁned as the square of the ratio of the root mean square of a deﬁned segment in a
given signal to the overall root mean square of the same signal. A gear condition indicator,
the sideband power factor [ 108], was proposed to evaluate the gear damage in the high-
speed stage of a wind turbine during nonstationary load and speed operating conditions.
Pattabiraman et al. [ 109] presented a sideband energy ratio for the monitoring of gear
defect progression in wind turbine gearboxes. Ni et al. [ 110] showed the advantages of
sample entropy features in detecting and evaluating the progress of early faults of the
rolling bearing in a wind turbine transmission system. Guo et al. [ 111] utilized correlation
and monotonicity to select sensitive features from original classical features, including
mean, RMS and kurtosis, and further constructed a recurrent neural network-based health
indicator for wind turbine generator bearings.
Figure 30a shows a life cycle vibration signal from the faulty rear bearing on the
high-speed shaft in a 2 MW wind turbine gearbox. The signal is listed day by day. Before
the 150th day, the bearing had a healthy status and the vibration amplitude was low. The
root mean square (RMS), as shown in Figure 30b, was lower than the alarm threshold in
VDI 3834 [ 33] during that period. After the 150th day, the RMS ﬂuctuated around the
alarm threshold until the 350th day; meanwhile, the kurtosis in Figure 30c between the
150th and 350th day performed better than that during the ﬁrst 150 days, indicating that
the incipient fault emerged on the bearing. The peak value in the kurtosis of Figure 30c
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 27 of 33
indicated potential spalling from the bearing at that time. Sometimes, the RMS fell below
the threshold, which was caused by the low rotational speed during the vibration test.
After the 350th day, the vibration amplitude and RMS increased gradually, indicating
further deterioration of the bearing health condition until the bearing was replaced on the
500th day. The failure bearing is shown in Figure 30d. After replacement of the bearing,
the vibration amplitude fell below the threshold. From this case, we can see that RMS can
be treated as a reasonable indicator for the remaining useful life prediction of the bearing
on the high-speed shaft of the wind turbine gearbox.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 29 of 35  
root mean square (RMS), as shown in Figure 30b, was lower than the alarm threshold in 
VDI 3834 [33] during that pe riod. After the 150th day, the RMS fluctuated around the 
alarm threshold until the 350th day; meanwhile, the kurtosis in Figure 30c between the 
150th and 350th day performed better than that during the first 150 days, indicating that 
the incipient fault emerged on the bearing. Th e peak value in the kurtosis of Figure 30c 
indicated potential spalling from the bearing at that time. Sometimes, the RMS fell below 
the threshold, which was caused by the low rotational speed during the vibration test. After the 350th day, the vibration amplitude and RMS increased gradually, indicating 
further deterioration of the bearing health condition until the bearing was replaced on the 
500th day. The failure bearing is shown in Fi gure 30d. After replacement of the bearing, 
the vibration amplitude fell below the threshol d. From this case, we can see that RMS can 
be treated as a reasonable indicator for the remaining useful life prediction of the bearing on the high-speed shaft of the wind turbine gearbox. 
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500−200002000
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500050100150
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 5000102030 t [Day]
 t [Day]
 t [Day]A [m/s2]RMS Kurtosis(b)
(c)(a)
(d)16Shutdown After replacement
 
Figure 30. A life cycle vibration case from faulty rear  bearing on the high-speed shaft of wind 
turbine gearbox: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) RMS; ( c) kurtosis; ( d) defective inner race of the bearing. 
6.5. Pedestal Looseness 
Disc coupling is widely utilized to connect  the high-speed shaft of the wind turbine 
gearbox with the generator shaft, which is shown in Figure 31. The misalignments of the two shafts are compensated by the deformat ion of the discs in order to protect the 
connected shafts and bearings. However, pede stal looseness, such as looseness of the 
foundation bolt of the generator, may enhance the relative displacements of the connected two shafts, causing destructive stress  to the discs, as shown in Figure 31b. A 
broken coupling and discs in a wind turbine drivetrain are shown in Figure 31c,d, which 
are caused by the pedestal looseness of th e generator. For the detection of pedestal 
Figure 30. A life cycle vibration case from faulty rear bearing on the high-speed shaft of wind turbine
gearbox: ( a) temporal signal; ( b) RMS; ( c) kurtosis; ( d) defective inner race of the bearing.
6.5. Pedestal Looseness
Disc coupling is widely utilized to connect the high-speed shaft of the wind turbine
gearbox with the generator shaft, which is shown in Figure 31. The misalignments of the
two shafts are compensated by the deformation of the discs in order to protect the connected
shafts and bearings. However, pedestal looseness, such as looseness of the foundation
bolt of the generator, may enhance the relative displacements of the connected two shafts,
causing destructive stress to the discs, as shown in Figure 31b. A broken coupling and
discs in a wind turbine drivetrain are shown in Figure 31c,d, which are caused by the
pedestal looseness of the generator. For the detection of pedestal looseness, the noise-
controlled second-order enhanced stochastic resonance method [ 102] was reported by
means of twice integral transform for amplifying weak fault information on the noisy
signal. An et al. [ 112] used a displacement transducer to acquire the vibration signal of
a direct-drive wind turbine and investigated ensemble empirical mode decomposition
and Hilbert transform [ 32] to extract the feature of bearing pedestal looseness. Compared
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 28 of 33
with the acceleration-based method, the displacement-based method is more applicable
in pedestal looseness detection, because the real misalignment force can be absorbed by
the deformation of the discs and hardly be reﬂected by the accelerometer mounted on the
surface of the generator. Figure 31a shows the displacement transducer which is used to
measure the axial displacement of the ﬂange of the coupling, which can directly reﬂect the
pedestal looseness of the generator.
Sensors 2021 , 21, x FOR PEER REVIEW 30 of 35  
looseness, the noise-controlled second-order enhanced stochastic re sonance method [102] 
was reported by means of twice integral transform for amplifying weak fault information 
on the noisy signal. An et al. [112] used a displacement transducer to acquire the 
vibration signal of a direct-drive wind turbine and investigated ensemble empirical mode decomposition and Hilbert transform [32] to  extract the feature of bearing pedestal 
looseness. Compared with the acceleration-based method, the displacement-based 
method is more applicable in pedestal looseness detection, because the real misalignment force can be absorbed by the deformation of the discs and hardly be reflected by the 
accelerometer mounted on the surface of  the generator. Figure 31a shows the 
displacement transducer which is used to meas ure the axial displacement of the flange of 
the coupling, which can directly reflect the pedestal looseness of the generator. 
(a)
(b)Coupling Generator
CouplingDisc
GearboxHigh speed shaft
Gearboxdisplacement 
transducerAccelerometer
 
 
  
(c) ( d) 
Figure 31. Disc coupling between the high-speed shaft of wind turbine gearbox and generator 
shaft: ( a) disc coupling under normal state; ( b) disc coupling under pedestal looseness; ( c) broken 
discs in coupling; ( d) disassembled discs. 
7. Research Needs and Future Challenges 
To date, numerous organizations and companies exist that provide commercial 
vibration analysis for wind turbine drivetrain s. In summary, several challenges need to 
be faced to prompt the prosperous develo pment of wind energy, which are listed as 
follows: 
Figure 31. Disc coupling between the high-speed shaft of wind turbine gearbox and generator shaft:
(a) disc coupling under normal state; ( b) disc coupling under pedestal looseness; ( c) broken discs in
coupling; ( d) disassembled discs.
7. Research Needs and Future Challenges
To date, numerous organizations and companies exist that provide commercial vibra-
tion analysis for wind turbine drivetrains. In summary, several challenges need to be faced
to prompt the prosperous development of wind energy, which are listed as follows:
(1) The parameters of the vibration data acquisition system, e.g., the sensitivity of ac-
celerometer, measurement range and frequency response range, are various, account-
ing for nonstandard data sources from wind turbine drivetrains. Urgent work is ex-
pected to standardize the condition monitoring system for manufacturers, researchers
and operators.
(2) During the operation of wind turbines, massive vibration signals are generated
each second, which causes a challenge for data archiving and communication. It is
suggested that the instantaneous vibration signal should be stored once four hours,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 29 of 33
with a 30 s duration each time. The signals at other times are processed as status
parameters in order to save storage space.
(3) The fault detection for planetary subassemblies in wind turbine gearboxes is still an
intractable task due to varying transmission path and adjacent fault characteristic
frequencies caused by low rotational speed. The higher vibration energy from interme-
diate and high-speed stages also masks the fault features of planetary subassemblies.
(4) After extracting the fault characteristics and constructing the health indicator, remain-
ing useful life prediction is a signiﬁcant task that can help schedule the maintenance
of gearboxes or generators for wind turbines.
(5) Vibration analysis and fault diagnosis for wind turbine drivetrains mainly depend on
the experiences of professional engineers, which lacks intelligent diagnosis function.
Certainly, it is necessary to take account of the following situations in the intelligent
diagnosis of wind turbine drivetrains: different sampling frequency at different
measurement positions, complex drivetrain structure, varying working condition, etc.
8. Conclusions
This paper reviews the research on the fault detection of wind turbine drivetrains in
the past decade. The structures of the mainstream wind turbine drivetrains are introduced,
and the computation of fault characteristic frequencies of the mechanical components are
given. Five common mechanical faults in wind turbine drivetrains are proposed with their
signal features being interpreted. For the challenging issues, signal separation techniques,
e.g., sparse decomposition, are signiﬁcant for the fault detection of planetary subassemblies
affected by the vibration from intermediate and high-speed stages; the time-frequency anal-
ysis of multi-component, high time-frequency concentration should be implemented for the
fault feature extraction of low speed parts under nonstationary conditions, e.g., planetary
gears and main bearings; multiscale envelope, signal decomposition and signal denoising
need to be pertinently studied to exhibit weak faults hidden in strong interferences and
noise; the construction of a health indicator is pivotal in remaining useful life prediction;
displacement-based measurement is recommended to detect pedestal looseness online.
In the future, wind energy will maintain a rapid development trend in China due to
the policy of renewable energy. The fault detection of wind turbine drivetrains is expected
to be more accurate, automatic and intelligent, which will help to reduce the labor under
harsh environments and the operational costs at wind farms.
Author Contributions: Investigation, S.T. and B.S.; Methodology, W.T.; Resources, J.X.; Software,
X.D.; Supervision, Y.L.; Writing—original draft, W.T.; Writing—review and editing, B.S. All authors
have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China, grant
number 51775186, 51305135 and The APC was funded by 51775186.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Data available on request due to restrictions eg privacy or ethical.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Available online: https://library.wwindea.org/global-statistics/ (accessed on 12 June 2020).
2. Salem, A.A.; Abu-Siada, A.; Islam, S. Condition monitoring techniques of the wind turbines gearbox and rotor. Int. J. Electr.
Energy 2014 ,2, 53–56. [CrossRef]
3. Amirat, Y.; Benbouzid, M.E.H.; Al-Ahmar, E.; Bensaker, B.; Turri, S. A brief status on condition monitoring and fault diagnosis in
wind energy conversion systems. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2009 ,13, 2629–2636. [CrossRef]
4. Igba, J.; Alemzadeh, K.; Durugbo, C.; Henningsen, K. Performance assessment of wind turbine gearboxes using in-service data:
Current approaches and future trends. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2015 ,50, 144–159. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 30 of 33
5. Ribrant, J.; Bertling, L.M. Survey of failures in wind power systems with focus on Swedish wind power plants during 1997–2005.
IEEE Trans. Energy Convers. 2007 ,22, 167–173. [CrossRef]
6. Dupuis, R. Application of oil debris monitoring for wind turbine gearbox prognostics and health management. In Proceedings of
the Annual Conference of the Prognostics and Health Management Society, Portland, OR, USA, 10–16 October 2010.
7. Zhang, Y.; Lu, W.; Chu, F. Planet gear fault localization for wind turbine gearbox using acoustic emission signals. Renew. Energy
2017 ,109, 449–460. [CrossRef]
8. Wei, J.; McCarty, J. Acoustic emission evaluation of composite wind turbine blades during fatigue testing. Wind Eng. 1993 ,17,
266–274.
9. Yin, Y.; Wang, W.; Yan, X.; Xiao, H.; Wang, C. An integrated online oil analysis method for condition monitoring. Meas. Sci.
Technol. 2003 ,14, 1973–1977.
10. Zhu, J.; Yoon, J.; He, D.; Qiu, B.; Bechhoefer, E. Online condition monitoring and remaining useful life prediction of particle
contaminated lubrication oil. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE Conference on Prognostics and Health Management (PHM),
Gaithersburg, MD, USA, 24–27 June 2013; pp. 1–14.
11. Mohanty, A.R.; Kar, C. Fault detection in a multistage gearbox by demodulation of motor current waveform. IEEE Trans. Ind.
Electron. 2006 ,53, 1285–1297. [CrossRef]
12. Yang, W.; Tavner, P .J.; Wilkinson, M.R. Condition monitoring and fault diagnosis of a wind turbine synchronous generator drive
train. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2009 ,3, 1–11. [CrossRef]
13. Azevedo, H.D.M.; Ara újo, A.M.; Bouchonneau, N. A review of wind turbine bearing condition monitoring: State of the art and
challenges. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,56, 368–379. [CrossRef]
14. Nejad, A.R.; Odgaard, P .F.; Gao, Z.; Moan, T. A prognostic method for fault detection in wind turbine drivetrains. Eng. Fail. Anal.
2014 ,42, 324–336. [CrossRef]
15. Márquez, F.P .G.; Tobias, A.M.; P érez, J.M.P .; Papaelias, M. Condition monitoring of wind turbines: Techniques and methods.
Renew. Energy 2012 ,48, 110–116.
16. Hameed, Z.; Hong, Y.S.; Cho, Y.M.; Ahn, S.H.; Song, C.K. Condition monitoring and fault detection of wind turbines and related
algorithms: A review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2009 ,13, 1–39. [CrossRef]
17. Kandukuri, S.T.; Klausen, A.; Karimi, H.R.; Robbersmyr, K.G. A review of diagnostics and prognostics of low-speed machinery
towards wind turbine farm-level health management. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2016 ,53, 697–708. [CrossRef]
18. Qiao, W.; Lu, D. A survey on wind turbine condition monitoring and fault diagnosis—Part I: Components and subsystems. IEEE
Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 6536–6545. [CrossRef]
19. Qiao, W.; Lu, D. A survey on wind turbine condition monitoring and fault diagnosis—Part II: Signals and signal processing
methods. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 6546–6557. [CrossRef]
20. Polinder, H.; Pijl, F.F.; Vilder, G.J.; Tavner, P .J. Comparison of direct-drive and geared generator concepts for wind turbines. In
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Electric Machines and Drives, San Antonio, TX, USA, 15 May 2005; pp.
543–550.
21. Teng, W.; Jiang, R.; Ding, X.; Liu, Y.; Ma, Z. Detection and quantization of bearing fault in direct drive wind turbine via
comparative analysis. Shock Vib. 2016 ,2016 , 2378435. [CrossRef]
22. Vicuña, C.M. Theoretical frequency analysis of vibrations from planetary gearboxes. Forsch Ing. 2012 ,76, 15–31.
23. Koch, J.P .T.; Vicuña, C.M. Dynamic and phenomenological vibration models for failure prediction on planet gears of planetary
gearboxes. J. Braz. Soc. Mech. Sci. Eng. 2014 ,36, 533–545. [CrossRef]
24. Parra, J.; Vicuña, C.M. Two methods for modeling vibrations of planetary gearboxes including faults: Comparison and validation.
Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2017 ,92, 213–225. [CrossRef]
25. Inalpolat, M.; Kahraman, A. A dynamic model to predict modulation sidebands of a planetary gear set having manufacturing
errors. J. Sound Vib. 2010 ,329, 371–393. [CrossRef]
26. Chaari, F.; Fakhfakh, T.; Hbaieb, R.; Louati, J.; Haddar, M. Inﬂuence of manufacturing errors on the dynamic behavior of planetary
gears. Int. J. Adv. Manuf. Technol. 2006 ,27, 738–746. [CrossRef]
27. Chaari, F.; Fakhfakh, T.; Haddar, M. Dynamic analysis of a planetary gear failure caused by tooth pitting and cracking. J. Fail.
Anal. Prev. 2006 ,6, 73–78. [CrossRef]
28. Feng, Z.; Zuo, M. Vibration signal models for fault diagnosis of planetary gearboxes. J. Sound Vib. 2012 ,331, 4919–4939. [CrossRef]
29. Lei, Y.; Liu, Z.; Lin, J.; Lu, F. Phenomenological models of vibration signals for condition monitoring and fault diagnosis of
epicyclic gearboxes. J. Sound Vib. 2016 ,369, 266–281. [CrossRef]
30. Liang, X.; Zuo, M.; Hoseini, M.R. Vibration signal modeling of a planetary gear set for tooth crack detection. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2015 ,
48, 185–200. [CrossRef]
31. Chen, Z.; Shao, Y. Dynamic simulation of planetary gear with tooth root crack in ring gear. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2013 ,31, 8–18.
[CrossRef]
32. Feldman, M. Hilbert transform in vibration analysis. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2011 ,25, 735–802. [CrossRef]
33. VDI 3834. In Measurement and Evaluation of the Mechanical Vibration of Wind Energy Turbines and Their Components Onshore Wind
Energy Turbines with Gears ; VDI: Düsseldorf, Germany, 2009; p. 16.
34. Practical Solutions to Machinery and Maintenance Vibration Problems, Chapter 8, Vibration in Bearings, Section 10, Vibration
Symptoms of a Loose Bearing. Available online: http://www.update-intl.com/VibrationBook8j.htm (accessed on 22 May 2015).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 31 of 33
35. McFadden, P .D.; Smith, J.D. An explanation for the asymmetry of the modulation sidebands about the tooth meshing frequency
in epicyclic gear vibration. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. 1985 ,199, 65–70. [CrossRef]
36. McFadden, P .D. A technique for calculating the time domain averages of the vibration of the individual planet gears and the sun
gear in an epicyclic gearbox. J. Sound Vib. 1991 ,144, 163–172. [CrossRef]
37. Hong, L.; Dhupia, J.S.; Sheng, S. An explanation of frequency features enabling detection of faults in equally spaced planetary
gearbox. Mech. Mach. Theory 2014 ,73, 169–183. [CrossRef]
38. Feng, Z.; Zuo, M.; Qu, J.; Tian, T.; Liu, Z. Joint amplitude and frequency demodulation analysis based on local mean decomposition
for fault diagnosis of planetary gearboxes. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2013 ,40, 56–75. [CrossRef]
39. Feng, Z.; Lin, X.; Zuo, M. Joint amplitude and frequency demodulation analysis based on intrinsic time-scale decomposition for
planetary gearbox fault diagnosis. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2016 ,72–73 , 223–240. [CrossRef]
40. Feng, Z.; Liang, M.; Zhang, Y.; Hou, S. Fault diagnosis for wind turbine planetary gearboxes via demodulation analysis based on
ensemble empirical mode decomposition and energy separation. Renew. Energy 2012 ,47, 112–126. [CrossRef]
41. Wang, L.; Shao, Y.; Cao, Z. Optimal demodulation subband selection for sun gear crack fault diagnosis in planetary gearbox.
Measurement 2018 ,125, 554–563. [CrossRef]
42. Lei, Y.; Han, D.; Lin, J.; He, Z. Planetary gearbox fault diagnosis using an adaptive stochastic resonance method. Mech. Syst.
Signal Process. 2013 ,38, 113–124. [CrossRef]
43. Chen, X.; Cheng, G.; Shan, X.; Hu, X.; Guo, Q.; Liu, H. Research of weak fault feature information extraction of planetary gear
based on ensemble empirical mode decomposition and adaptive stochastic resonance. Measurement 2015 ,73, 55–67. [CrossRef]
44. Ha, J.M.; Youn, B.D.; Oh, H.; Han, B.; Jung, Y.; Park, J. Autocorrelation-based time synchronous averaging for condition
monitoring of planetary gearboxes in wind turbines. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2016 ,70–71 , 161–175. [CrossRef]
45. Liang, X.; Zuo, M.; Liu, L. A windowing and mapping strategy for gear tooth fault detection of a planetary gearbox. Mech. Syst.
Signal Process. 2016 ,80, 445–459. [CrossRef]
46. Feng, Z.; Liang, M. Complex signal analysis for planetary gearbox fault diagnosis via shift invariant dictionary learning.
Measurement 2016 ,90, 382–395. [CrossRef]
47. Wang, T.; Chu, F.; Han, Q. Fault diagnosis for wind turbine planetary ring gear via a meshing resonance based ﬁltering algorithm.
ISA Trans. 2017 ,67, 173–182. [CrossRef]
48. Kong, Y.; Wang, T.; Chu, F. Meshing frequency modulation assisted empirical wavelet transform for fault diagnosis of wind
turbine planetary ring gear. Renew. Energy 2019 ,132, 1373–1388. [CrossRef]
49. Teng, W.; Ding, X.; Cheng, H.; Han, C.; Liu, Y.; Mu, H. Compound faults diagnosis and analysis for a wind turbine gearbox via a
novel vibration model and empirical wavelet transform. Renew. Energy 2019 ,136, 393–402. [CrossRef]
50. Feng, Z.; Liang, M. Complex signal analysis for wind turbine planetary gearbox fault diagnosis via iterative atomic decomposition
thresholding. J. Sound Vib. 2014 ,333, 5196–5211. [CrossRef]
51. Barszcz, T.; Randall, R.B. Application of spectral kurtosis for detection of a tooth crack in the planetary gear of a wind turbine.
Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2009 ,23, 1352–1365. [CrossRef]
52. Bonnardot, F.; Randall, R.B.; Antoni, J.; Guillet, F. Enhanced unsupervised noise cancellation (E-SANC) using angular resampling
application for planetary bearing fault diagnosis. Surveillance 2004 ,5, 11–13.
53. Fan, Z.; Li, H. A hybrid approach for fault diagnosis of planetary bearings using an internal vibration sensor. Measurement 2015 ,
64, 71–80. [CrossRef]
54. Wang, T.; Han, Q.; Chu, F.; Feng, Z. A new SKRgram based demodulation technique for planet bearing fault detection. J. Sound
Vib. 2016 ,385, 330–349. [CrossRef]
55. Wang, T.; Chu, F.; Feng, Z. Meshing frequency modulation (MFM) index-based kurtogram for planet bearing fault detection. J.
Sound Vib. 2018 ,432, 437–453. [CrossRef]
56. Feng, Z.; Ma, H.; Zuo, M. Spectral negentropy based sidebands and demodulation analysis for planet bearing fault diagnosis. J.
Sound Vib. 2017 ,410, 124–150. [CrossRef]
57. Jain, S.; Whiteley, P .E.; Hunt, H.E.M. Detection of planet bearing faults in wind turbine gearboxes. In Proceedings of the
International Conference on Noise and Vibration Engineering (ISMA)/International Conference on Uncertainty in Structural
Dynamics (USD), Leuven, Belgium, 17–19 September 2012.
58. Selesnick, I.W. Wavelet transform with tunable Q-factor. IEEE Trans. Signal Process. 2011 ,59, 3560–3575. [CrossRef]
59. Selesnick, I.W. Resonance-based signal decomposition: A new sparsity-enabled signal analysis method. Signal Process. 2011 ,91,
2793–2809. [CrossRef]
60. Teng, W.; Liu, Y.; Huang, Y.; Song, L.; Liu, Y.; Ma, Z. Fault detection of planetary subassemblies in a wind turbine gearbox using
TQWT based sparse representation. J. Sound Vib. 2021 ,490, 1–22. [CrossRef]
61. Maheswari, R.U.; Umamaheswari, R. Trends in non-stationary signal processing techniques applied to vibration analysis of wind
turbine drive train—A contemporary survey. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2017 ,85, 296–311. [CrossRef]
62. Yang, Y.; Peng, Z.; Dong, X.; Zhang, W.; Meng, G. General parameterized time-frequency transform. IEEE Trans. Signal Process.
2014 ,62, 2751–2764. [CrossRef]
63. Yang, Y.; Peng, Z.; Meng, G.; Zhang, W. Spline-kernelled chirplet transform for the analysis of signals with time-varying frequency
and its application. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2012 ,59, 1612–1621. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 32 of 33
64. Yang, W.; Tavner, P .J.; Tian, W. Wind turbine condition monitoring based on an improved spline-kernelled chirplet transform.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 6565–6574. [CrossRef]
65. Guan, Y.; Liang, M.; Necsulescu, D.S. Velocity synchronous bilinear distribution for planetary gearbox fault diagnosis under
non-stationary conditions. J. Sound Vib. 2019 ,443, 212–229. [CrossRef]
66. Feng, Z.; Chen, X.; Liang, M.; Ma, F. Time-frequency demodulation analysis based on iterative generalized demodulation for fault
diagnosis of planetary gearbox under nonstationary conditions. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2015 ,62–63 , 54–74. [CrossRef]
67. Feng, Z.; Chen, X.; Liang, M. Iterative generalized synchrosqueezing transform for fault diagnosis of wind turbine planetary
gearbox under nonstationary conditions. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2015 ,52–53 , 360–375. [CrossRef]
68. Feng, Z.; Liang, M. Fault diagnosis of wind turbine planetary gearbox under nonstationary conditions via adaptive optimal
kernel time-frequency analysis. Renew. Energy 2014 ,66, 468–477. [CrossRef]
69. Feng, Z.; Qin, S.; Liang, M. Time-frequency analysis based on Vold-Kalman ﬁlter and higher order energy separation for fault
diagnosis of wind turbine planetary gearbox under nonstationary conditions. Renew. Energy 2016 ,85, 45–56. [CrossRef]
70. Chen, X.; Feng, Z. Iterative generalized time-frequency reassignment for planetary gearbox fault diagnosis under nonstationary
conditions. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2016 ,80, 429–444. [CrossRef]
71. Daubechies, I. Ten Lectures on Wavelets ; SIAM: Philadelphia, PA, USA, 1992.
72. Park, J.; Hamadache, M.; Ha, J.M.; Kim, Y.; Na, K.; Youn, B.D. A positive energy residual (PER) based planetary gear fault
detection method under variable speed conditions. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2019 ,117, 347–360. [CrossRef]
73. Feng, Z.; Chen, X.; Liang, M. Joint envelope and frequency order spectrum analysis based on iterative generalized demodulation
for planetary gearbox fault diagnosis under nonstationary conditions. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2016 ,76–77 , 242–264. [CrossRef]
74. Jiang, X.; Li, S. A dual path optimization ridge estimation method for condition monitoring of planetary gearbox under
varying-speed operation. Measurement 2016 ,94, 630–644. [CrossRef]
75. Hong, L.; Qu, Y.; Dhupia, J.S.; Sheng, S.; Tan, Y.; Zhou, Z. A novel vibration-based fault diagnostic algorithm for gearboxes under
speed ﬂuctuations without rotational speed measurement. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2017 ,94, 14–32. [CrossRef]
76. He, G.; Ding, K.; Li, W.; Jiao, X. A novel order tracking method for wind turbine planetary gearbox vibration analysis based on
discrete spectrum correction technique. Renew. Energy 2016 ,87, 364–375. [CrossRef]
77. Li, Z.; Jiang, Y.; Guo, Q.; Hu, C.; Peng, Z. Multi-dimensional variational mode decomposition for bearing-crack detection in wind
turbines with large driving-speed variations. Renew. Energy 2018 ,116, 55–73. [CrossRef]
78. Antoniadou, I.; Manson, G.; Staszewski, W.J.; Barszcz, T.; Worden, K. A time-frequency analysis approach for condition monitoring
of a wind turbine gearbox under varying load conditions. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2015 ,64–65 , 188–216. [CrossRef]
79. Sawalhi, N.; Randall, R.B. Gear parameter identiﬁcation in a wind turbine gearbox using vibration signals. Mech. Syst. Signal
Process. 2014 ,42, 368–376. [CrossRef]
80. Villa, L.F.; Renones, A.; Peran, J.R.; Miguel, L.J. Angular resampling for vibration analysis in wind turbines under non-linear
speed ﬂuctuation. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2011 ,25, 2157–2168. [CrossRef]
81. Pezzani, C.M.; Bossio, J.M.; Castellino, A.M.; Bossio, G.R.; Angelo, C.H. A PLL-based resampling technique for vibration analysis
in variable-speed wind turbines with PMSG: A bearing fault case. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2017 ,85, 354–366. [CrossRef]
82. Teng, W.; Ding, X.; Zhang, X.; Liu, Y.; Ma, Z. Multi-fault detection and failure analysis of wind turbine gearbox using complex
wavelet transform. Renew. Energy 2016 ,93, 591–598. [CrossRef]
83. Yan, R.; Gao, R.X. Multi-scale enveloping spectrogram for vibration analysis in bearing defect diagnosis. Tribol. Int. 2009 ,42,
293–302. [CrossRef]
84. Sawalhi, N.; Randall, R.B. Signal pre-whitening using cepstrum editing (Liftering) to enhance fault detection in rolling element
bearings. In Proceedings of the 24th International Congress on Condition Monitoring and Diagnostics Engineering Management
(COMADEM), Stavanger, Norway, 30 May–1 June 2011.
85. Ma, Z.; Teng, W.; Liu, Y.; Wang, D.; Kusiak, A. Application of the multi-scale enveloping spectrogram to detect weak faults in a
wind turbine gearbox. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2017 ,11, 578–584. [CrossRef]
86. Du, Z.; Chen, X.; Zhang, H.; Yan, R. Sparse feature identiﬁcation based on union of redundant dictionary for wind turbine
gearbox fault diagnosis. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 6594–6605. [CrossRef]
87. Teng, W.; Wang, F.; Zhang, K.; Liu, Y.; Ding, X. Pitting fault detection of a wind turbine gearbox using empirical mode
decomposition. Stroj. Vestn. J. Mech. Eng. 2014 ,60, 12–20. [CrossRef]
88. Liu, W.; Zhang, W.; Han, J.; Wang, G. A new wind turbine fault diagnosis method based on the local mean decomposition. Renew.
Energy 2012 ,48, 411–415. [CrossRef]
89. Liu, W.; Gao, Q.; Ye, G.; Ma, R.; Lu, X.; Han, J. A novel wind turbine bearing fault diagnosis method based on integral extension
LMD. Measurement 2015 ,74, 70–77. [CrossRef]
90. Wang, J.; Gao, R.X.; Yan, R. Integration of EEMD and ICA for wind turbine gearbox diagnosis. Wind Energy 2014 ,17, 757–773.
[CrossRef]
91. Hu, A.; Yan, X.; Xiang, L. A new wind turbine fault diagnosis method based on ensemble intrinsic time-scale decomposition and
WPT-fractal dimension. Renew. Energy 2015 ,83, 767–778. [CrossRef]
92. Chen, J.; Pan, J.; Li, Z.; Zi, Y.; Chen, X. Generator bearing fault diagnosis for wind turbine via empirical wavelet transform using
measured vibration signals. Renew. Energy 2016 ,89, 80–92. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2021 ,21, 1686 33 of 33
93. Teng, W.; Wang, W.; Ma, H.; Liu, Y.; Ma, Z.; Mu, H. Adaptive fault detection of the bearing in wind turbine generators using
parameterless empirical wavelet transform and margin factor. J. Vib. Control 2019 ,25, 1263–1278. [CrossRef]
94. Teng, W.; Ding, X.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, Y.; Ma, Z.; Kusiak, A. Application of cyclic coherence function to bearing fault detection in a
wind turbine generator under electromagnetic vibration. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2017 ,87, 279–293. [CrossRef]
95. Antoni, J. Cyclic spectral analysis in practice. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2007 ,21, 597–630. [CrossRef]
96. Ma, Z.; Liu, Y.; Wang, D.; Teng, W.; Kusiak, A. Cyclostationary analysis of a faulty bearing in the wind turbine. J. Sol. Energy Eng.
2017 ,139, 031006. [CrossRef]
97. Sun, H.; Zi, Y.; He, Z. Wind turbine fault detection using multiwavelet denoising with the data-driven block threshold. Appl.
Acoust. 2014 ,77, 122–129. [CrossRef]
98. Barszcz, T.; Sawalhi, N. Wind turbines’ rolling element bearings fault detection enhancement using minimum entropy deconvolu-
tion. Diagn. Struct. Health Monit. 2011 ,3, 53–59.
99. Tang, B.; Liu, W.; Song, T. Wind turbine fault diagnosis based on Morlet wavelet transformation and Wigner-Ville distribution.
Renew. Energy 2010 ,35, 2862–2866. [CrossRef]
100. Jiang, Y.; Tang, B.; Qin, Y.; Liu, W. Feature extraction method of wind turbine based on adaptive Morlet wavelet and SVD. Renew.
Energy 2011 ,36, 2146–2153. [CrossRef]
101. Yang, D.; Li, H.; Hu, Y.; Zhao, J.; Xiao, H.W.; Lan, Y. Vibration condition monitoring system for wind turbine bearings based on
noise suppression with multi-point data fusion. Renew. Energy 2016 ,92, 104–116. [CrossRef]
102. Li, J.; Chen, X.; Du, Z.; Fang, Z.; He, Z. A new noise-controlled second-order enhanced stochastic resonance method with its
application in wind turbine drivetrain fault diagnosis. Renew. Energy 2013 ,60, 7–19. [CrossRef]
103. Li, J.; Li, M.; Zhang, J.; Jiang, G. Frequency-shift multiscale noise tuning stochastic resonance method for fault diagnosis of
generator bearing in wind turbine. Measurement 2019 ,133, 421–432. [CrossRef]
104. Ren, H.; Liu, W.; Jiang, Y.; Su, X. A novel wind turbine weak feature extraction method based on cross genetic algorithm optimal
MHW. Measurement 2017 ,109, 242–246. [CrossRef]
105. Hong, L.; Dhupia, J.S. A time domain approach to diagnose gearbox fault based on measured vibration signals. J. Sound Vib. 2014 ,
333, 2164–2180. [CrossRef]
106. Li, Z.; Yan, X.; Wang, X.; Peng, Z. Detection of gear cracks in a complex gearbox of wind turbines using supervised bounded
component analysis of vibration signals collected from multi-channel sensors. J. Sound Vib. 2016 ,371, 406–433. [CrossRef]
107. Shanbr, S.; Elasha, F.; Elforjani, M.; Teixeira, J. Detection of natural crack in wind turbine gearbox. Renew. Energy 2018 ,118,
172–179. [CrossRef]
108. Zappal á, D.; Tavner, P .J.; Crabtree, C.J.; Sheng, S. Side-band algorithm for automatic wind turbine gearbox fault detection and
diagnosis. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2014 ,8, 380–389. [CrossRef]
109. Pattabiraman, T.R.; Srinivasan, K.; Malarmohan, K. Assessment of sideband energy ratio technique in detection of wind turbine
gear defects. Case Stud. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2015 ,2, 1–11.
110. Ni, Q.; Feng, K.; Wang, K.; Yang, B.; Wang, Y. A case study of sample entropy analysis to the fault detection of bearing in wind
turbine. Case Stud. Eng. Fail. Anal. 2017 ,9, 99–111. [CrossRef]
111. Guo, L.; Li, N.; Jia, F.; Lei, Y.; Lin, J. A recurrent neural network based health indicator for remaining useful life prediction of
bearings. Neurocomputing 2017 ,240, 98–109. [CrossRef]
112. An, X.; Jiang, D.; Li, S.; Zhao, M. Application of the ensemble empirical mode decomposition and Hilbert transform to pedestal
looseness study of direct-drive wind turbine. Energy 2011 ,36, 5508–5520. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
