energies
Article
Estimating Health Condition of the Wind T urbine
Drivetrain System
Peng Qian1, Xiandong Ma1and Dahai Zhang2,*ID
1Engineering Department, Lancaster University, Lancaster LA1 4YW, UK; peng.qian@brunel.ac.uk (P .Q.);
xiandong.ma@lancaster.ac.uk (X.M.)
2Ocean College, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China
*Correspondence: zhangdahai@zju.edu.cn
Received: 4 September 2017; Accepted: 10 October 2017; Published: 12 October 2017
Abstract: Condition Monitoring (CM) has been considered as an effective method to enhance the
reliability of wind turbines and implement cost-effective maintenance. Thus, adopting an efﬁcient
approach for condition monitoring of wind turbines is desirable. This paper presents a data-driven
model-based CM approach for wind turbines based on the online sequential extreme learning
machine (OS-ELM) algorithm. A physical kinetic energy correction model is employed to normalize
the temperature change to the value at the rated power output to eliminate the effect of variable
speed operation of the turbines. The residual signal, obtained by comparing the predicted values
and practical measurements, is processed by the physical correction model and then assessed with
a Bonferroni interval method for fault diagnosis. Models have been validated using supervisory
control and data acquisition (SCADA) data acquired from an operational wind farm, which contains
various types of temperature data of the gearbox. The results show that the proposed method
can detect more efﬁciently both the long-term aging characteristics and the short-term faults of
the gearbox.
Keywords: condition monitoring; online sequential extreme learning machine (OS-ELM); Bonferroni
interval; health condition; drivetrain; wind turbine
1. Introduction
Over the past decades, wind energy has been widely regarded as an effective energy solution to
reducing CO 2emissions and producing sustainable energy because of its technology maturity and
improved cost competitiveness. One of the key priorities identiﬁed by the wind industry is to reduce
costs in the operation and maintenance of wind turbines, which currently accounts for 18% of the
cost of offshore energy [ 1]. A cost-effective operation of the wind farm is therefore crucial due to the
ﬁerce competition in the global sustainable energy market. Monitoring of the operating conditions
of the wind turbines has been considered as an effective method to enhance the reliability of wind
turbines and implement cost-effective maintenance. Clearly, it is essential to develop effective CM
techniques for wind turbines [ 1–3] to provide information regarding the past and current conditions of
the turbines, and to enable the optimal scheduling of maintenance tasks [4].
From surveys concerning the reliability of the wind turbines, faults caused by the drivetrain
system account for over 20% of total faults and contribute to approximately 30% of the downtime of
doubly-fed induction generator (DFIG)-based wind turbines [ 5,6]. Thus, studies about fault diagnosis
of the drivetrain system are necessary. Figure 1 shows a typical drivetrain system in a DFIG wind
turbine that contains hub, main bearing, main shaft, gearbox, brake, generator shaft and generator. The
main function of drivetrain system is to transmit kinetic energy from the turbine rotor to the electric
generator by adjusting rotational speed and torque.
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583; doi:10.3390/en10101583 www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 2 of 19
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  2 of 18 
 
Main 
bearing Main shaft GearboxGenerator 
shaftGenerator
Gearbox bearingBrakeRotor
 
Figure 1.  A typical drivetrain and its componen ts in the doubly-fed wind turbine. 
For the mechanical transmission system, monitoring and analysis of the vibration signals have 
been proven very effective, as it is easy to obta in the fault signature of a specific component in the 
frequency or time-frequency domains. However, it is difficult to obtain accurate vibration signals in the wind turbine under varying speed operation.  Furthermore, condition monitoring based on 
vibration signals is a kind of component-specific technique, which lacks providing an inherent 
relationship between different subs ystems [7]. For example, variable  speed wind turbines have the 
function of maximum power point tracking that optimizes performance in relation to time changing wind speed. This means the rotor, gearbox and generator rotational speed may change significantly and frequently during operation. Due to the significant rotational speed change, the vibration frequency bandwidth varies, which ma y cause difficulties in locating the exact location of the fault. 
Acoustic emission (AE) is another effective method that can be applied in condition monitoring 
of the wind turbine [8]. When materials bear extern al strain or stress, they may generate sound waves 
called AE. Even a tiny structural change will make AE signals to be excited, meaning that AE signal 
is very suitable to be applied to detect incipient structure defect and monitor its development. For wind turbines, AE signals are generally used for fault detection of the blade, gearbox, bearing, and generator. Compared with vibration signals, AE signals have high signal-to-noise ratio, which means that AE signals can be applied in high-noise envi ronments. However, AE technique also has its own 
disadvantages. To monitor subsystems of the wind tu rbine, it is necessary to install a large number 
of AE sensors, and each sensor requires an independent data acquisition system for signal sensing, 
processing and transferring, which increases the cost and complexity of the condition monitoring 
system. 
Monitoring techniques based on temperature sign als have been developed for fault diagnosis of 
gearboxes, generators, and power converters. Furthe rmore, temperature signals can also provide key 
information on the health condition of mechanical  transmission system in wind turbines [9–11]. 
However, in previous work, the relationship betw een the temperature rise and the operating power 
has not been considered yet. Although the same temperature change can be observed whilst under 
different operating power, its effect on the indica tive damage of the drivetrain system might be 
different. For example, a temperature anomaly will cause different working efficiency for the 
drivetrain system when working at full power and half power conditions. A working efficiency 
decline as low as to 0.34% for each gear stage would lead to 10 KW power loss in a 1 MW wind turbine [12–14]. In [15], the relationship between the gearbox temperature and power generation is 
Figure 1. A typical drivetrain and its components in the doubly-fed wind turbine.
For the mechanical transmission system, monitoring and analysis of the vibration signals have
been proven very effective, as it is easy to obtain the fault signature of a speciﬁc component in the
frequency or time-frequency domains. However, it is difﬁcult to obtain accurate vibration signals in the
wind turbine under varying speed operation. Furthermore, condition monitoring based on vibration
signals is a kind of component-speciﬁc technique, which lacks providing an inherent relationship
between different subsystems [ 7]. For example, variable speed wind turbines have the function of
maximum power point tracking that optimizes performance in relation to time changing wind speed.
This means the rotor, gearbox and generator rotational speed may change signiﬁcantly and frequently
during operation. Due to the signiﬁcant rotational speed change, the vibration frequency bandwidth
varies, which may cause difﬁculties in locating the exact location of the fault.
Acoustic emission (AE) is another effective method that can be applied in condition monitoring
of the wind turbine [ 8]. When materials bear external strain or stress, they may generate sound
waves called AE. Even a tiny structural change will make AE signals to be excited, meaning that AE
signal is very suitable to be applied to detect incipient structure defect and monitor its development.
For wind turbines, AE signals are generally used for fault detection of the blade, gearbox, bearing,
and generator. Compared with vibration signals, AE signals have high signal-to-noise ratio, which
means that AE signals can be applied in high-noise environments. However, AE technique also
has its own disadvantages. To monitor subsystems of the wind turbine, it is necessary to install
a large number of AE sensors, and each sensor requires an independent data acquisition system for
signal sensing, processing and transferring, which increases the cost and complexity of the condition
monitoring system.
Monitoring techniques based on temperature signals have been developed for fault diagnosis
of gearboxes, generators, and power converters. Furthermore, temperature signals can also provide
key information on the health condition of mechanical transmission system in wind turbines [ 9–11].
However, in previous work, the relationship between the temperature rise and the operating power
has not been considered yet. Although the same temperature change can be observed whilst under
different operating power, its effect on the indicative damage of the drivetrain system might be different.
For example, a temperature anomaly will cause different working efﬁciency for the drivetrain system
when working at full power and half power conditions. A working efﬁciency decline as low as to
0.34% for each gear stage would lead to 10 KW power loss in a 1 MW wind turbine [ 12–14]. In [ 15], the
relationship between the gearbox temperature and power generation is illustrated; however, it does
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 3 of 19
not consider correcting temperature changes under different power output condition for drivetrain
condition monitoring.
A new data-driven model-based method is proposed in this paper for estimating the health
condition of the drivetrain in wind turbines. The model to predict output values is built based on the
OS-ELM algorithm [ 16]. The residual signal is then obtained by comparing the predicted values with
those from measurements. Compared with other artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) methods, such as artiﬁcial
neural networks (ANNs) [ 17], support vector machines (SVMs) [ 18], OS-ELM has a faster training
speed and a better generalization performance [ 19]. The residual signal produced is then further
assessed by the physical kinetic energy correction model of the drivetrain, which evaluates the degree
of faults by investigating the relationship between the temperature rise and power output. Finally, the
Bonferroni method, a cost-effective method used to counteract the problem of multiple comparisons,
is used to adjust and assess the health condition of the drivetrain. Although a physical model was
proposed and applied to investigate relationships between temperature, efﬁciency, rotational speed and
power output in [ 15], one major contribution of this paper is that the temperature rise is normalized at
the rated power output, thus providing a more sensitive diagnosis. This paper also assesses the health
condition using multivariate data analysis by taking into account both the independence of variables
and the relationship among variables, which is more appropriate when modeling a practical process
than the univariate analysis. Essentially, a wind turbine is a complex multivariate system, resulting in
strong coupling among variables.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Working principle of the online sequential
extreme learning machine is presented in Section 2. Section 3 describes the physical kinetic energy
correction model for the wind turbine drivetrain while Section 4 calculates the health condition of
gearbox based on the Bonferroni interval. A case study using SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition) data is then performed and the results are shown and discussed in Section 5. Section 6
contains conclusions and suggestions for further research.
2. Online Sequential Extreme Learning Machine
Extreme learning machine (ELM) algorithm was ﬁrst proposed by Huang [ 20] for single hidden
layer feed forward neural networks (SLFNs). Compared with other traditional supervised batch
learning algorithms in ANNs, ELM algorithm has the advantages of faster learning and better
generalization capability [ 21–24]. However, the ELM algorithm assumes that all training data are
available before the training begins. In real cases, this assumption cannot always be satisﬁed, as data
are available for training on a chunk-by-chunk or one-by-one basis. Thus, this paper considers using
a novel sequential extreme learning machine due to its advantages below.
(1) OS-ELM learning algorithm can receive the training data sequentially, i.e., arriving
chunk-by-chunk or one-by-one.
(2) At any time, only newly arriving data are used as training data and transferred to the
learning algorithm.
Thus, the application of OS-ELM algorithm is very suitable for condition monitoring of wind
turbines. Nowadays, the operation of wind turbine follows the power curve designed by the wind
turbine manufacturer. As an example, a normal power curve of turbines from SCADA data is illustrated
in Figure 2a; turbine power varies cubically with wind speed, and wind speed varies continuously on
time-scales. When the wind speed is lower than the cut-in speed (4 m/s in this case), the turbine does
not produce any power because the rotor torque is too low. When the wind speed is above the cut-out
speed (25 m/s in this case), the turbine does not produce any power either because it has to be shut
down to protect it from overloading. If the wind speed is above the rated wind speed (15 m/s in this
case) but below the cut-out speed, the turbine’s output power is capped at the rated power.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 4 of 19
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  4 of 18 
  
(a)
 
(b)
 
(c)
Figure 2.  Examples of power curve of faul t-free and faulty wind turbines: ( a) power curve of the fault-
free wind turbine; ( b) power curve of the wind turbine with a gearbox fault; and ( c) wind power time 
series data for the faulty turbine. 
The normal power curve can represent the operatio n performance of a faul t-free wind turbine. 
The change of operation performance, i.e., the chan ge of the power curve, may indicate the onset of 
a turbine fault. The power curve of a wind turbine, as shown in Figure 2b, is an example of abnormal 
operations. In this case, the wind turbine reduces to  half of its rated power output, as shown in the 
red circle in Figure 2b and wind power time series data in Figure 2c, to prevent the development of more serious problems. Compared to an immedi ate shut-down once the fault is detected, the 
Measurement points 1043.8 3.85 3.9 3.95 4 4.05 4.1 4.15 4.2 4.25Active power (KW)
-500050010001500200025003000
− 
Figure 2. Examples of power curve of fault-free and faulty wind turbines: ( a) power curve of the
fault-free wind turbine; ( b) power curve of the wind turbine with a gearbox fault; and ( c) wind power
time series data for the faulty turbine.
The normal power curve can represent the operation performance of a fault-free wind turbine.
The change of operation performance, i.e., the change of the power curve, may indicate the onset of
a turbine fault. The power curve of a wind turbine, as shown in Figure 2b, is an example of abnormal
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 5 of 19
operations. In this case, the wind turbine reduces to half of its rated power output, as shown in the red
circle in Figure 2b and wind power time series data in Figure 2c, to prevent the development of more
serious problems. Compared to an immediate shut-down once the fault is detected, the operation of
the turbine by reducing power output would reduce the dynamic mechanical loads experienced by
the turbine structure, whilst still maintaining its operation.
When the operation performance is changed, new training data should be refreshed into the
prediction model to ﬁt the new operation scenarios. Thus, the advantages of OS-ELM algorithm are
able to update training data resulting from the new operation scenarios of the wind turbine. A full
description of the OS-ELM algorithm is given as follows.
The schematic diagram of a single hidden-layer feed forward neural network is shown in Figure 3,
which consists of an input layer, a hidden layer and an output layer. It assumes that the input layer
and the hidden layer have n and L neurons, respectively, while the output layer has m neurons; x1,x2,
. . . , xnandy1,y2, . . . , ymare input and output signals, respectively.
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  5 of 18 
 operation of the turbine by reducing power outp ut would reduce the dynamic mechanical loads 
experienced by the turbine structure, whilst still maintaining its operation.  
When the operation performance is changed, new training data should be refreshed into the 
prediction model to fit the new operation scenario s. Thus, the advantages of OS-ELM algorithm are 
able to update training data resulting from the new operation scenarios of the wind turbine. A full description of the OS-ELM algorithm is given as follows. 
The schematic diagram of a single hidden-layer fe ed forward neural network is shown in Figure 
3, which consists of an input layer, a hidden layer and an output layer. It assumes that the input layer and the hidden layer have n and L neurons, resp ectively, while the output layer has m neurons; x
1, 
x2, …, xn and y1, y2, …, ym are input and output signals, respectively. 
Input Layer Hidden Layer Output Layer
x1
xny1
y2
ym-1
ymg1(w,b,x)
w
g2(w,b,x)
gL-1(w,b,x)
gL(w,b,x)β
 
Figure 3. Schematic diagram of the single hidden-la yer feed forward neural network (SLFN). 
If there exists an ELM with L neurons in the hidden layer and an activation function g(.) can 
approximate the N samples with zero error, the output matrix M of ELM between inputs nodes and 
outputs nodes can be represented by 
=ܯ
ۏێێێێێێۍ෍ߚ ௜ଵݓ(݃௜ݔଵ+ܾ௜)௅
௜ୀଵ෍ߚ ௜ଵݓ(݃௜ݔଶ+ܾ௜)௅
௜ୀଵ
෍ߚ ௜ଶݓ(݃௜ݔଵ+ܾ௜)௅
௜ୀଵ෍ߚ ௜ଶݓ(݃௜ݔଶ+ܾ௜)௅
௜ୀଵ⋯෍ߚ ௜ଵ݃൫ݓ௜ݔ௝+ܾ௜൯௅௜ୀଵ
⋯෍ߚ ௜ଶ݃൫ݓ௜ݔ௝+ܾ௜൯௅௜ୀଵ
⋮⋮
෍ߚ ௜௠ݓ(݃௜ݔଵ+ܾ௜)௅
௜ୀଵ෍ߚ ௜௠ݓ(݃௜ݔଶ+ܾ௜)௅
௜ୀଵ⋱⋮
⋯෍ߚ ௜௠݃൫ݓ௜ݔ௝+ܾ௜൯௅
௜ୀଵ ےۑۑۑۑۑۑې
௠×ே 
൬=݅1 ,2 ,⋯,ܮ
݆=1,2,⋯,ܰ൰ (1) 
where ݓ௜=ሾݓ௜ଵݓ௜ଶ⋯ݓ௜௡ሿ is the weight vector between the ith hidden node and input nodes; 
ߚ௜=ሾߚ௜ଵߚ௜ଶ⋯ߚ௜௠ሿ	is output weight vector connecting the ith hidden node and output nodes; 
ݔ௝=ሾݔଵ௝ݔଶ௝⋯ݔ௡௝ሿ் is the jth input samples; and ܾ௜=ሾܾଵܾଶ⋯ܾ௅ሿ் represents the bias of 
the hidden layer matrix. 
For simplicity, Equation (1) can be compactly described as, 
ܯ=ߚܪ ் (2) 
Figure 3. Schematic diagram of the single hidden-layer feed forward neural network (SLFN).
If there exists an ELM with Lneurons in the hidden layer and an activation function g(.) can
approximate the Nsamples with zero error, the output matrix Mof ELM between inputs nodes and
outputs nodes can be represented by
M=2
66666666664L
å
i=1bi1g(wix1+bi)L
å
i=1bi1g(wix2+bi)L
å
i=1bi1g(wixi+bi)
L
å
i=1bi2g(wix1+bi)L
å
i=1bi2g(wix2+bi)L
å
i=1bi2g 
wixj+bi
............
L
å
i=1bimg(wix1+bi)L
å
i=1bimg(wix2+bi)L
å
i=1bimg 
wixj+bi3
77777777775
mN 
i=1, 2,,L
j=1, 2,,N!
(1)
where wi=h
wi1wi2 wini
is the weight vector between the ith hidden node and
input nodes; bi=h
bi1bi2 bimi
is output weight vector connecting the ith hidden
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 6 of 19
node and output nodes; xj=h
x1jx2j xnjiT
is the jth input samples; and bi=
h
b1b2 bLiT
represents the bias of the hidden layer matrix.
For simplicity, Equation (1) can be compactly described as,
Hb=MT(2)
where MTis the transpose matrix of MandHis the output matrix of the hidden layer of the ELM. The
matrix Hcan be expressed as,
H=2
66664g(w1x1+b1)g(w2x1+b2)
g(w1x2+b1)g(w2x2+b2) g(wLx1+bL)
 g(wLx2+bL)
......
g(w1xN+b1)g(w2xN+b2)......
 g(wLxN+bL)3
77775
NL(3)
When the input weight matrix wand the hidden layer bias matrix bare initialized, the hidden
layer output matrix Hcan be uniquely determined. The output weight matrix bcan be calculated by
minimizing the error function as follow,
min
bkHb MTk (4)
During this process, the input weight matrix wand the hidden layer bias matrix bdo not need to
be changed and the solution can be expressed,
ˆb=H+MT(5)
The matrix H+is the generalized Moore-Penrose inverse of the matrix H, which can be found
using the singular value decomposition method.
To make ELM online sequential, ˆbcan be transferred as follows:
H+=
HTH 1
HT(6)
ˆb=
HTH 1
HTMT(7)
Suppose the training data has two sets; one is the chunk of initial training data N0and another
is the chunk of new training data N1. Then, the Equation (5) can be updated to Equation (8) by
minimizing the error function between two moments, where H0and M0are the output matrix of the
hidden layer and the output matrix for the initial training data N0, while H1and M1are the output
matrix of the hidden layer and the output matrix for ﬁrst chunk of training data N1.
k"
H0
H1#
b "
MT
0
MT
1#
k (8)
The output weight matrix bthat considers both initial block of training data N0and block of
training data received in the next moment N1becomes
b(1)=K 1
1"
H0
H1#T"
MT
0
MT
1#
(9)
where
K1=K0+HT
1H1 (10)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 7 of 19
Therefore, the output weight matrix b(1)for the 1st chunk of training data N1is updated. Suppose
b(0)is the output weight matrix for the chunk of initial training data N0, then
b(1)=b(0)+K 1
1HT
1
MT
1 H1b(0)
(11)
As mentioned above, when a chunk of data arrives at step K+ 1, the parameters are updated
as follows:
KK+1=KK+HT
K+1HK+1 (12)
K 1
K+1=K 1
K K 1
KHT
K+1
I+HK+1K 1
KHT
K+1 1
HK+1K 1
K(13)
Using PK+1=K 1
K+1, the equation for b(K+1)can be updated
PK+1=PK PKHT
K+1
I+HK+1PKHT
K+1 1
HK+1PK (14)
The output weight matrix b(K+1)at step K+ 1 therefore becomes
b(K+1)=b(K)+PK+1HT
K+1
MT
K+1 HK+1b(K)
(15)
Hence, this sequential ELM algorithm has the ability of achieving an online training in real time,
if the sampling speed for updated training data is quick enough. However, it is worth noting that,
in this paper, the main purpose of using OS-ELM is to achieve updated training data to ensure that the
model is adapted to accommodate different operational behaviors of the wind turbines encountered
during their operations. Real time online training capacity of the method is not considered in the paper.
In this paper, one-year historical data are used as initial data to train initial weights. When new scene
data are available, the new dataset is then transmitted to OS-ELM model to update the weights.
In our study, the updating duration is one month and the length of the data to be used is around
between 4320 and 4464 points for each parameters depending on the calendar month; more information
about data can be seen in the later Section 5.1. It is worth emphasizing that the data obtained from
the fault-free turbine are selected for model training. Then, the data gained from a turbine with
system aging only and a faulty turbine are used as the input data of the model to predict their
monitoring variable output. Consequently, the established model can identify both the aging and
faulty wind turbines.
As veriﬁed in our previous work [ 24], the ELM can learn much faster than the traditional back
propagation (BP) neural network while still achieving similar model ﬁt performance.
3. Physical Kinetic Energy Correction Model
As a key component of DFIG turbine drivetrain, the gearbox is used because turbine rotor
cannot reach synchronous speed that satisﬁes the operating condition of DFIG generator. The use of
gearbox is to transmit kinetic energy from the turbine rotor to the DFIG electric generator through the
drivetrain system. The CM of temperature signal is a proven method to diagnose the faults and predict
the residual life of the drivetrain system. Traditionally, a same threshold is applied to temperature
monitoring regardless of the operating power, which means the same weight is assigned for the
temperature change contributing to the damage of gearbox. However, the operating power could
have a signiﬁcant impact on the temperature changes; therefore, its effect on the temperature changes
should be weighted differently.
Supposing sis the drivetrain system efﬁciency, Eis the input kinetic energy from the rotor to the
drivetrain, Pis the output kinetic energy from gearbox to generator, then E= 1/sP.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 8 of 19
Based on the ﬁrst law of thermodynamics, we can have
Q=1
s 1
P (16)
where Qrepresents the heat loss of gearbox, which leads to the temperature rise of drivetrain. If ?is
the compound heat transfer coefﬁcient, the relationship between the heat loss of drivetrain Qand the
gearbox temperature rise DTcan be described by
Q=?DT (17)
Substituting Equation (17) into Equation (16) gives
DT=1
?1 s
s
P (18)
In the ideal conditions, the compound heat-transfer coefﬁcient ?is considered as constant.
Figure 4 illustrates an example of the relationship between temperature rise and efﬁciency change of
the drivetrain at different operating power outputs for a 2.5 MW wind turbine. As can be seen from
the ﬁgure, the efﬁciency change varies at different power outputs. This implies that a fault occurring
in drivetrain will lead to an increase in DTin response to a reduction of efﬁciency sif the same power
output is to be maintained. The higher the operating power output is, the smaller the efﬁciency varies
under the same temperature change DT. This also means, although the faults may cause a same value
ofDT, their effects on the level of damage of drivetrain differs if the power output is different.
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  8 of 18 
  
Figure 4. A 3D view of temperature rise, efficiency ch ange and operating power of the drivetrain 
system.  
Consequently, a temperature correction method should be considered. In our study, the 
temperature change ∆ܶ is firstly obtained from the ELM model in response to the power output 
gained from SCADA data, and then the corresponding efficiency ߪ is calculated by using Equation 
(18). The temperature ∆ܶ is further corrected to the value when the turbine is operating at the full 
power at the given efficiency. All the temperature ch anges at different power outputs are thus finally 
normalized to the value at the rated power output.  
4. Estimating the Health Condition 
The residual signals obtained from prediction model are now processed by the energy correction 
model. For the gearbox, its bearing temperature rise  can be caused by either the gearbox aging or a 
potential fault or a failure. Figure 5 shows an ex ample of temperature curve of gearbox bearing due 
to system aging in wind turbine. The temperature curve in red shows the trend of temperature rise 
with active power in the wind turbine due to system  aging only during first three months of one year. 
Temperature rises with increasing active power ou tput. The temperature curve after six months of 
operation is also shown in the figure with blue color; apparently, temperature increases after the 
turbine operates for a period. An example of temper ature rise due to a fault of the gearbox is shown 
in Figure 6. In this case, the temperature actually  deviates from the curve randomly, indicating the 
onset of a fault. The fault is identified after ch ecking the event logs recording user activities, 
exceptions and alarms in the SCADA system, which is related to the gearbox cooling system. 
 
Figure 5.  Gearbox bearing temperature rise trend in the first three months and after six months 
operation. 0.80.850.90.951
500100015002000250005101520
EfficiencyPower (KW) ΔT (deg C) 
Figure 4. A 3D view of temperature rise, efﬁciency change and operating power of the
drivetrain system.
Consequently, a temperature correction method should be considered. In our study, the
temperature change DTis ﬁrstly obtained from the ELM model in response to the power output
gained from SCADA data, and then the corresponding efﬁciency sis calculated by using Equation (18).
The temperature DTis further corrected to the value when the turbine is operating at the full power at
the given efﬁciency. All the temperature changes at different power outputs are thus ﬁnally normalized
to the value at the rated power output.
4. Estimating the Health Condition
The residual signals obtained from prediction model are now processed by the energy correction
model. For the gearbox, its bearing temperature rise can be caused by either the gearbox aging or
a potential fault or a failure. Figure 5 shows an example of temperature curve of gearbox bearing
due to system aging in wind turbine. The temperature curve in red shows the trend of temperature
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 9 of 19
rise with active power in the wind turbine due to system aging only during ﬁrst three months of one
year. Temperature rises with increasing active power output. The temperature curve after six months
of operation is also shown in the ﬁgure with blue color; apparently, temperature increases after the
turbine operates for a period. An example of temperature rise due to a fault of the gearbox is shown in
Figure 6. In this case, the temperature actually deviates from the curve randomly, indicating the onset
of a fault. The fault is identiﬁed after checking the event logs recording user activities, exceptions and
alarms in the SCADA system, which is related to the gearbox cooling system.
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  8 of 18 
  
Figure 4. A 3D view of temperature rise, efficiency ch ange and operating power of the drivetrain 
system.  
Consequently, a temperature correction method should be considered. In our study, the 
temperature change ∆ܶ is firstly obtained from the ELM model in response to the power output 
gained from SCADA data, and then the corresponding efficiency ߪ is calculated by using Equation 
(18). The temperature ∆ܶ is further corrected to the value when the turbine is operating at the full 
power at the given efficiency. All the temperature ch anges at different power outputs are thus finally 
normalized to the value at the rated power output.  
4. Estimating the Health Condition 
The residual signals obtained from prediction model are now processed by the energy correction 
model. For the gearbox, its bearing temperature rise  can be caused by either the gearbox aging or a 
potential fault or a failure. Figure 5 shows an ex ample of temperature curve of gearbox bearing due 
to system aging in wind turbine. The temperature curve in red shows the trend of temperature rise 
with active power in the wind turbine due to system  aging only during first three months of one year. 
Temperature rises with increasing active power ou tput. The temperature curve after six months of 
operation is also shown in the figure with blue color; apparently, temperature increases after the 
turbine operates for a period. An example of temper ature rise due to a fault of the gearbox is shown 
in Figure 6. In this case, the temperature actually  deviates from the curve randomly, indicating the 
onset of a fault. The fault is identified after ch ecking the event logs recording user activities, 
exceptions and alarms in the SCADA system, which is related to the gearbox cooling system. 
 
Figure 5.  Gearbox bearing temperature rise trend in the first three months and after six months 
operation. 0.80.850.90.951
500100015002000250005101520
EfficiencyPower (KW) ΔT (deg C) 
Figure 5. Gearbox bearing temperature rise trend in the ﬁrst three months and after six months
operation.
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  9 of 18 
  
Figure 6.  Gearbox bearing temperature rise trend resulting from a gearbox fault. 
In the model-based CM systems, faults can be diagnosed by comparing the difference between 
the actually measured signal and the predicted va lue from the sequential extreme learning machine 
algorithm. Although a method relying on residual sign als alone can detect faults effectively, it is not 
able to evaluate accurately the significance ab out the failure of components. Furthermore, the 
drivetrain in a wind turbine is generally composed of several components, which are, specifically, gears, bearings and the cooling system (usually oil cooling). Clearly, it would be desirable to use a more appropriate method in order to identify the health condition of the drivetrain by considering 
relationship between different components.  
The estimation of system performance by using Hotelling’s T-square, as described in Equation 
(19), has been proven to be effective in [25], wh ere the method was used to achieve multivariate 
failure mode analysis of electronics. The method can provide the global information of deviation level in wind turbines. Confidence intervals for the Ho telling’s T-square method can be computed using 
Equation (20) and utilized to estimate deviation level for each variable.  
ܶ
ଶ=ܷ(ܰ−)ߤ்ܵିଵ(ܷ−)ߤ( 19) 
݀௞(ߙ௞)=ݑ௞+ඨܰ(݌−1)
(ܰ−)݌ܨ௣,ேି௣(ߙ௞)ටݏ௞௞
ܰ( 20) 
where ݑ(=ܷଵ,ݑଶ,⋯,ݑ௞)் indicates a set of variables, for example, the temperatures of gearbox 
bearing u1, gearbox oil u2, and drivetrain main bearing u3 in this study . The ݑ(=ߤଵതതത,ݑଶതതത,⋯,ݑ௞തതത)், 
where ݑ௞ represents the mean value of the measurement parameter ݑ௞.The distribution ܨ௣,ேି௣  is a 
F distribution used in statistics; N is the number of the samples for each measurement parameter; the 
parameter p is the number of variables; ܵ is the covariance matrix of U; ݏ௞௞ is diagonal value in the 
covariance matrix. In Equation (20), ߙ௞ represents the critical value for the F distribution; when ߙ௞ 
is determined, the value of ܨ௣,ேି௣  can be found from the F distribution table [26] and the confidence 
interval is thus determined. It is worth noting that ߙ௞ indicates probability of occurrence of the 
residual signal values. If ߙ௞ < 0.01, the monitoring data are considered to indicate a fault in the 
component [7], while, if ߙ௞	 is larger than a particular value wh ich can be application dependent, the 
component can be in a debilitating condition. In this case study, ߙ௞ = 0.25 is selected as a threshold 
value for debilitating condition.  
Despite of the global effect the above confiden ce interval demonstrates, the method lacks the 
ability to provide details concerning the effect of individual components on the overall operational conditions. Instead, Bonferroni intervals simply focuses on the means for each of the individual variables themselves, thereby enabling to build a more accurate confidence interval range [26]. Thus, 
Bonferroni intervals, as described in Equation (21), are applied in this study.  
Figure 6. Gearbox bearing temperature rise trend resulting from a gearbox fault.
In the model-based CM systems, faults can be diagnosed by comparing the difference between
the actually measured signal and the predicted value from the sequential extreme learning machine
algorithm. Although a method relying on residual signals alone can detect faults effectively, it is
not able to evaluate accurately the signiﬁcance about the failure of components. Furthermore, the
drivetrain in a wind turbine is generally composed of several components, which are, speciﬁcally,
gears, bearings and the cooling system (usually oil cooling). Clearly, it would be desirable to use
a more appropriate method in order to identify the health condition of the drivetrain by considering
relationship between different components.
The estimation of system performance by using Hotelling’s T-square, as described in Equation (19),
has been proven to be effective in [ 25], where the method was used to achieve multivariate failure
mode analysis of electronics. The method can provide the global information of deviation level in
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 10 of 19
wind turbines. Conﬁdence intervals for the Hotelling’s T-square method can be computed using
Equation (20) and utilized to estimate deviation level for each variable.
T2=N(U m)TS 1(U m) (19)
dk(ak)=uk+s
p(N 1)
(N p)Fp,N p(ak)r
skk
N(20)
where U=(u1,u2,,uk)Tindicates a set of variables, for example, the temperatures of gearbox
bearing u1, gearbox oil u2, and drivetrain main bearing u3in this study. The m=(u1,u2,,uk)T,
where ukrepresents the mean value of the measurement parameter uk. The distribution Fp,N pis aF
distribution used in statistics; Nis the number of the samples for each measurement parameter; the
parameter pis the number of variables; Sis the covariance matrix of U;skkis diagonal value in the
covariance matrix. In Equation (20), akrepresents the critical value for the Fdistribution; when akis
determined, the value of Fp,N pcan be found from the Fdistribution table [ 26] and the conﬁdence
interval is thus determined. It is worth noting that akindicates probability of occurrence of the residual
signal values. If ak< 0.01, the monitoring data are considered to indicate a fault in the component [ 7],
while, if akis larger than a particular value which can be application dependent, the component
can be in a debilitating condition. In this case study, ak= 0.25 is selected as a threshold value for
debilitating condition.
Despite of the global effect the above conﬁdence interval demonstrates, the method lacks the
ability to provide details concerning the effect of individual components on the overall operational
conditions. Instead, Bonferroni intervals simply focuses on the means for each of the individual
variables themselves, thereby enabling to build a more accurate conﬁdence interval range [ 26]. Thus,
Bonferroni intervals, as described in Equation (21), are applied in this study.
dk(ak)=uk+tN 1ak
2pr
skk
N(21)
The distribution tN 1is atdistribution used in statistics and the value of tN 1can be found
from a tdistribution table. In our study, the value of residual signal after processing with the energy
correction model is considered as a fault if the value is higher than dk(0.01). Meanwhile, dk(0.25)is
deﬁned as the threshold value for debilitating condition.
5. Case Studies
5.1. SCADA Data
SCADA systems are available on most commercial wind farms, which utilize hardware and
software elements and IT technologies to monitor, gather, and process data. The systems are used for
a range of functions, including data acquisition, control, adjustment of parameters, and generating
warning signals. To reduce the amount of data gathered from the operating wind turbines, SCADA
data are usually stored at 10 min interval although sampled at the second level. SCADA data have
been employed widely by researchers as the basis for CM systems and more detailed description of
SCADA data and their applications can be found in Reference [ 27]. The SCADA data used for our
study are acquired from an operational wind farm, sampled at 10 min interval, and consist of a number
of parameters that contain various temperatures, pressures, vibrations, power outputs, wind speed
and digital control signals. The SCADA data used in this paper cover nine months, and the data length
for each parameter is approximately 38,880 points.
We select gearbox temperatures at different locations to monitor the condition of gearbox. The
dataset contains temperature readings for gearbox bearing, i.e., the main speed shaft bearing connected
to the rotor, the gearbox oil, i.e., the temperature of gearbox oil which is close to actual gear temperature,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 11 of 19
and the main bearing temperature, as shown in Figure 1. Two wind turbines are selected to verify
effectiveness of the proposed method, one being a turbine with system aging only and another
one being a faulty turbine. To achieve an appropriate model identiﬁcation, wind speed, ambient
temperature and power output are selected as the inputs while the targeted temperature in the gearbox
is considered as the output. This multiple-input and single-output (MISO) approach allows a more
sensitive detection.
5.2. Model Predictions
This section now presents and compares the residual temperature signal produced by using
OS-ELM model without and with energy correction method being applied. Figures 7 and 8 show
the actual SCADA data, predicted values from the model and the residual signal of the gearbox
bearing temperature for the system aging turbine and the faulty turbine respectively. As can be
seen in Figure 7c, the temperature rises with time, which is caused by the system aging. Figure 9a,b
illustrates residual signal of the gearbox bearing temperature due to the system aging, where the
revised temperature is the residual signal processed by the physical kinetic energy correction model.
Although both methods demonstrate temperature rises with time due to the system aging, the corrected
gearbox bearing temperature exhibits a more obvious deviation trend than the one produced from
the normal method because temperatures are converted to the values at the rated power output in
the correction model. The maximum difference between corrected signal and normal signal for the
turbine with system aging only can reach up to 4.7C. Figure 10a,b demonstrates residual signal of
gearbox bearing temperature in the condition of a bearing fault. It can be seen that the gearbox bearing
temperature deviates in April, indicating the onset of a fault, and reaches the highest at the beginning
of September. It also appears that the corrected bearing temperature shows much clearer characteristics
when the fault begins. The maximum difference between corrected signal and normal signal for the
faulty turbine can reach up to 7.2C. With the correction model being applied, the residual signal is
normalized at the rated power output, thus producing more ﬂuctuations of the signal being monitored.
This implies that the revised method has a better sensitivity than the normal method, thus facilitating
a more accurate fault detection.
5.3. Fault Diagnosis
To assess further the condition of drivetrain components, the Bonferroni intervals and conﬁdence
intervals for Hotelling’s T-square are compared, which are used to access each variable deviation in
a multivariable system. Two sets of avalues are selected for both Bonferroni intervals and conﬁdence
intervals for Hotelling’s T-square. One is a= 0.01 and the other one is a= 0.25, as described above. The
residual signal is considered as an anomaly if it is over dk(0.01)[7]. Figure 11 shows the residual signal
between the actual temperatures and predicted ones of the gearbox bearing for the faulty turbine
during nine months. It can be seen that the gearbox bearing temperature deviate from the prediction
at April, indicating the onset of a fault. Although the residual signal value starts ﬂuctuating between
April and September, it is still within the tolerance zone. At the beginning of September, the fault
leads to a dramatic increase in the residual value. The values of dk(0.01)and dk(0.25)for Bonferroni
intervals using Equation (21) are 9.84C and 6.4C, respectively. Meanwhile, the values of dk(0.01)
anddk(0.25)for Hotelling’s T-square conﬁdence intervals are 10.5C and 8C, respectively. Therefore,
Bonferroni intervals are smaller than Hotelling’s T-square conﬁdence intervals.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 12 of 19
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  11 of 18 
 signal being monitored. This implies that the revise d method has a better sens itivity than the normal 
method, thus facilitating a more accurate fault detection. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 7.  Model prediction compared to SCADA data fo r gearbox bearing temperature for the turbine 
with system aging only: ( a) SCADA output; ( b) model output; and ( c) residual signal. 
− 
Figure 7. Model prediction compared to SCADA data for gearbox bearing temperature for the turbine
with system aging only: ( a) SCADA output; ( b) model output; and ( c) residual signal.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 13 of 19
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  12 of 18 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 8.  Model prediction compared to SCADA data for gearbox bearing temperature for the faulty 
turbine: ( a) SCADA output; ( b) model output; and ( c) residual signal.   
− 
Figure 8. Model prediction compared to SCADA data for gearbox bearing temperature for the faulty
turbine: ( a) SCADA output; ( b) model output; and ( c) residual signal.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 14 of 19
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  13 of 18 
 (a) 
(b) 
Figure 9.  Residual temperatures from the ELM model with and without the energy correction model 
being applied the turbine due to the system aging only: ( a) residual signal of the gearbox bearing 
temperature; and ( b) temperature changes from the corre cted signal and normal signal. 
(a) 
− − 
− 
Figure 9. Residual temperatures from the ELM model with and without the energy correction model
being applied the turbine due to the system aging only: ( a) residual signal of the gearbox bearing
temperature; and ( b) temperature changes from the corrected signal and normal signal.
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  13 of 18 
 (a) 
(b) 
Figure 9.  Residual temperatures from the ELM model with and without the energy correction model 
being applied the turbine due to the system aging only: ( a) residual signal of the gearbox bearing 
temperature; and ( b) temperature changes from the corre cted signal and normal signal. 
(a) 
− − 
− 
Figure 10. Cont .
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 15 of 19
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  14 of 18 
  
(b) 
Figure 10.  Residual temperatures from the ELM model with and without the energy correction model 
being applied for the faulty turbine: ( a) residual signal of the gear box bearing temperature; and ( b) 
temperature changes from the corrected signal and normal signal. 
5.3. Fault Diagnosis 
To assess further the condition of drivetrain  components, the Bonferroni intervals and 
confidence intervals for Hotelling’s T-square are compared, which are used to access each variable deviation in a multivariable system. Two sets of ߙ values are selected for both Bonferroni intervals 
and confidence intervals for Hotelling’s T-square. One is ߙ = 0.01 and the other one is ߙ = 0.25, as 
described above. The residual signal is considered as an anomaly if it is over ݀
௞(0.01) [7]. Figure 11 
shows the residual signal between the actual temperatures and predicted ones of the gearbox bearing 
for the faulty turbine during nine months. It can be  seen that the gearbox bearing temperature deviate 
from the prediction at April, indica ting the onset of a fault. Although the residual signal value starts 
fluctuating between April and September, it is still within the tolerance zone. At the beginning of September, the fault leads to a dramatic incr ease in the residual value. The values of ݀
௞(0.01) and 
݀௞(0.25) for Bonferroni intervals using Equation (21) are 9.84 °C and 6.4 °C, respectively. Meanwhile, 
the values of ݀௞(0.01) and ݀௞(0.25) for Hotelling’s T-square confidence intervals are 10.5 °C and  
8 °C, respectively. Therefore, Bonferroni intervals are smaller than Hotelling’s T-square confidence 
intervals.  
 
Figure 11.  Comparison of Bonferroni intervals and conf idence intervals for Hotelling’s T-square for 
gearbox bearing in the faulty wind turbine.   
The model predictions for gearbox oil and drivetrain main bearing using the OS-ELM model 
and physical kinetic energy correction model are de scribed as follows. Figure 12a shows the residual 
− 
− 
Figure 10. Residual temperatures from the ELM model with and without the energy correction model
being applied for the faulty turbine: ( a) residual signal of the gearbox bearing temperature; and ( b)
temperature changes from the corrected signal and normal signal.
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  14 of 18 
  
(b) 
Figure 10.  Residual temperatures from the ELM model with and without the energy correction model 
being applied for the faulty turbine: ( a) residual signal of the gear box bearing temperature; and ( b) 
temperature changes from the corrected signal and normal signal. 
5.3. Fault Diagnosis 
To assess further the condition of drivetrain  components, the Bonferroni intervals and 
confidence intervals for Hotelling’s T-square are compared, which are used to access each variable deviation in a multivariable system. Two sets of ߙ values are selected for both Bonferroni intervals 
and confidence intervals for Hotelling’s T-square. One is ߙ = 0.01 and the other one is ߙ = 0.25, as 
described above. The residual signal is considered as an anomaly if it is over ݀
௞(0.01) [7]. Figure 11 
shows the residual signal between the actual temperatures and predicted ones of the gearbox bearing 
for the faulty turbine during nine months. It can be  seen that the gearbox bearing temperature deviate 
from the prediction at April, indica ting the onset of a fault. Although the residual signal value starts 
fluctuating between April and September, it is still within the tolerance zone. At the beginning of September, the fault leads to a dramatic incr ease in the residual value. The values of ݀
௞(0.01) and 
݀௞(0.25) for Bonferroni intervals using Equation (21) are 9.84 °C and 6.4 °C, respectively. Meanwhile, 
the values of ݀௞(0.01) and ݀௞(0.25) for Hotelling’s T-square confidence intervals are 10.5 °C and  
8 °C, respectively. Therefore, Bonferroni intervals are smaller than Hotelling’s T-square confidence 
intervals.  
 
Figure 11.  Comparison of Bonferroni intervals and conf idence intervals for Hotelling’s T-square for 
gearbox bearing in the faulty wind turbine.   
The model predictions for gearbox oil and drivetrain main bearing using the OS-ELM model 
and physical kinetic energy correction model are de scribed as follows. Figure 12a shows the residual 
− 
− 
Figure 11. Comparison of Bonferroni intervals and conﬁdence intervals for Hotelling’s T-square for
gearbox bearing in the faulty wind turbine.
The model predictions for gearbox oil and drivetrain main bearing using the OS-ELM model
and physical kinetic energy correction model are described as follows. Figure 12a shows the residual
signal between the actual temperatures and predicted ones of the gearbox oil for the faulty turbine
during nine months. The values of dk(0.01)anddk(0.25)for Bonferroni intervals are 9.78C and 6.6C,
respectively. It seems that the fault characteristic of the gearbox oil is the same as the gearbox bearing.
Figure 12b illustrates the residual signal between the actual temperature and predicted temperature of
the drivetrain main bearing. The values of dk(0.01)and dk(0.25)for Bonferroni intervals are 13.1C
and 10.2C, respectively. The drivetrain main bearing deviates from the prediction between April and
at the end of May with the values exceeding dk(0.01). It also begins to recover to normal temperature
at the end of July. After checking the alarm log of the SCADA data, it was found that a fault in the
gearbox cooling system caused the rising of temperatures of both the gearbox oil and the gearbox
bearing. This result indicates that the root cause of the fault occur at the cooling system of the gearbox.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 16 of 19
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  15 of 18 
 signal between the actual temperatures and predicte d ones of the gearbox oil for the faulty turbine 
during nine months. The values of ݀௞(0.01) and ݀௞(0.25) for Bonferroni intervals are 9.78 °C and 
6.6 °C, respectively. It seems that the fault characteri stic of the gearbox oil is the same as the gearbox 
bearing. Figure 12b illustrates the residual sign al between the actual temperature and predicted 
temperature of the drivetrain main bearing. The values of ݀௞(0.01) and ݀௞(0.25) for Bonferroni 
intervals are 13.1 °C and 10.2 °C, respectively. The drivetrain main bearing deviates from the 
prediction between April and at the end of May with the values exceeding ݀௞(0.01). It also begins to 
recover to normal temperature at the end of July. After checking the alarm log of the SCADA data, it 
was found that a fault in the gearbox cooling system caused the rising of temperatures of both the gearbox oil and the gearbox bearing. This result indi cates that the root cause of the fault occur at the 
cooling system of the gearbox. 
(a)
(b)
Figure 12. Residual signals of the temperature rise tren d for gearbox in the faulty wind turbine: ( a) 
residual signal of the gearbox oil temperat ure rise trend during nine months; and ( b) residual signal 
of the drivetrain main bearing temper ature rise trend during nine months.    
In comparison, we also assess the above temperat ures for the wind turbine with aging problem 
only. Figure 13a shows the residual signal between  the actual temperature and predicted temperature 
of the gearbox bearing for the aging turbine during nine months. Figure 13b illustrates the residual signal of gearbox oil temperature for the same wind turbine. It can be seen that, although the gearbox 
bearing and oil temperature residual signals have a rising trend, they are still below the ݀
௞(0.25), 
indicating the gearbox is in the healthy operational condition. The variation of power output has less 
effect on oil temperature than bearing temperature,  because cooling oil has a higher specific heat 
capacity than metal. Figure 13c illustrates the re sidual signal between the actual temperature and 
predicted temperature of the drivetrain main bearing, showing it is also within a safe operational range.  
− − 
Figure 12. Residual signals of the temperature rise trend for gearbox in the faulty wind turbine:
(a) residual signal of the gearbox oil temperature rise trend during nine months; and ( b) residual signal
of the drivetrain main bearing temperature rise trend during nine months.
In comparison, we also assess the above temperatures for the wind turbine with aging problem
only. Figure 13a shows the residual signal between the actual temperature and predicted temperature
of the gearbox bearing for the aging turbine during nine months. Figure 13b illustrates the residual
signal of gearbox oil temperature for the same wind turbine. It can be seen that, although the gearbox
bearing and oil temperature residual signals have a rising trend, they are still below the dk(0.25),
indicating the gearbox is in the healthy operational condition. The variation of power output has
less effect on oil temperature than bearing temperature, because cooling oil has a higher speciﬁc heat
capacity than metal. Figure 13c illustrates the residual signal between the actual temperature and
predicted temperature of the drivetrain main bearing, showing it is also within a safe operational range.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 17 of 19
Energies 2017 , 10, 1583  16 of 18 
  
(a)
 
(b)
 
(c)
Figure 13.  Residual signals of the temperature rise tren d in the system aging condition during nine 
months: ( a) residual signal of the gearbox bearing temperature rise trend; ( b) residual signal of the 
gearbox oil temperature rise trend; and ( c) residual signal of the drivetrain main bearing temperature 
rise trend. 
6. Conclusions  
This paper has presented an online sequential ex treme learning machine algorithm that has been 
applied in the model-based condition monitoring of the wind turbine drivetrain system. To demonstrate effectiveness of the proposed method, two types of representative condition (long-term 
system aging and short-term component fault) from two wind turbines are examined in this paper. 
− − − 
Figure 13. Residual signals of the temperature rise trend in the system aging condition during nine
months: ( a) residual signal of the gearbox bearing temperature rise trend; ( b) residual signal of the
gearbox oil temperature rise trend; and ( c) residual signal of the drivetrain main bearing temperature
rise trend.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 18 of 19
6. Conclusions
This paper has presented an online sequential extreme learning machine algorithm that has
been applied in the model-based condition monitoring of the wind turbine drivetrain system.
To demonstrate effectiveness of the proposed method, two types of representative condition (long-term
system aging and short-term component fault) from two wind turbines are examined in this paper. The
SCADA data, including the temperatures of gearbox oil, gearbox bearing and drivetrain main bearing
obtained from an operational wind farm have been used. Fault identiﬁcation is achieved by using
data-driven models derived from these data. The residual signals are the difference between the actual
output and the corresponding predicted value, which are caused by the system aging or the fault, thus
providing an early warning of impending failure. The residual temperature signal is further revised
by a physical kinetic energy correction model, which normalizes the temperature change at different
power point to the value at the rated power output. The corrected values can provide a more sensitive
trend indicative of signal changes. The results show that, using the Bonferroni method, a more accurate
estimate of the health condition of drivetrain can be achieved, thus facilitating a more reliable fault
diagnosis. Although the paper focuses on the gearbox fault detection due to the failure of the cooling
system, the proposed method can be generic and used for other fault detection such as in generator
bearings and windings. The temperature of these key drivetrain components in the wind turbine
depend not only on the wind speed but also on the power demand from the grid. The normalization
of the temperature change with regards to the rated power output can eliminate the effect of variable
speed operation of the turbines, thus providing a more accurate fault detection. Future work will
therefore consider online real time function of OS-ELM; and an online real time condition-monitoring
device based on OS-ELM will be designed.
Acknowledgments: The authors would like to acknowledge the ﬁnancial support from National Natural Science
Foundation of China (Grant No. 51579222), the international collaboration and exchange program from the
NSFC-RCUK/EPSRC (Grant No. 51761135011), Youth Funds of the State Key Laboratory of Fluid Power and
Mechatronic Systems (Zhejiang University, No. KLoFP_QN_1604) and Fundamental Research Funds for the
Central Universities (No. 2017XZZX001-02A).
Author Contributions: Peng Qian carried out most of the work presented here; Xiandong Ma revised the contents
and reviewed the manuscript; and Dahai Zhang contributed to the writing and summarizing proposed ideas
of Section 3.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂicts of interest.
References
1. Zhang, W.; Ma, X. Simultaneous Fault Detection and Sensor Selection for Condition Monitoring of Wind
Turbines. Energies 2016 ,9, 280. [CrossRef]
2. Yang, W.; Tavner, P .J.; Tian, W. Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring Based on an Improved Spline-Kernelled
Chirplet Transform. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 6565–6574. [CrossRef]
3. Guo, P .; Inﬁeld, D. Wind Turbine Tower Vibration Modeling and Monitoring by the Nonlinear State
Estimation Technique (NSET). Energies 2012 ,5, 5279–5293. [CrossRef]
4. Yang, W.; Tavner, P .J.; Crabtree, C.J.; Wilkinson, M. Cost-Effective Condition Monitoring for Wind Turbines.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2010 ,57, 263–271. [CrossRef]
5. Qiao, W.; Lu, D. A Survey on Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis; Part I: Components
and Subsystems. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 6536–6545. [CrossRef]
6. Qiao, W.; Lu, D. A Survey on Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis; Part II: Signals and
Signal Processing Methods. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 6546–6557. [CrossRef]
7. Bangalore, P .; Tjernberg, L.B. An Artiﬁcial Neural Network Approach for Early Fault Detection of Gearbox
Bearings. IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 2015 ,6, 980–987. [CrossRef]
8. Elasha, F.; Greaves, M.; Mba, D.; Fang, D. A comparative study of the effectiveness of vibration and acoustic
emission in diagnosing a defective bearing in a planetry gearbox. Appl. Acoust. 2017 ,115, 181–195. [CrossRef]
9. Gill, S.; Stephen, B.; Galloway, S. Wind Turbine Condition Assessment through Power Curve Copula
Modeling. IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy 2012 ,3, 94–101. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2017 ,10, 1583 19 of 19
10. Zhang, Y.; Muljadi, E.; Kosterev, D.; Singh, M. Wind Power Plant Model Validation Using Synchrophasor
Measurements at the Point of Interconnection. IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy 2015 ,6, 984–992. [CrossRef]
11. Wang, Y.; Inﬁeld, D. Supervisory control and data acquisition data-based non-linear state estimation
technique for wind turbine gearbox condition monitoring. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2013 ,7, 350–358.
[CrossRef]
12. Fernandes, C.M.C.G.; Marques, P .M.T.; Martins, R.C.; Seabra, J.H.O. Gearbox power loss. Part I: Losses in
rolling bearings. Tribol. Int. 2015 ,88, 298–308. [CrossRef]
13. Fernandes, C.M.C.G.; Marques, P .M.T.; Martins, R.C.; Seabra, J.H.O. Gearbox power loss. Part II: Friction
losses in gears. Tribol. Int. 2015 ,88, 309–316. [CrossRef]
14. Fernandes, C.M.C.G.; Marques, P .M.T.; Martins, R.C.; Seabra, J.H.O. Gearbox power loss. Part III: Application
to a parallel axis and a planetary gearbox. Tribol. Int. 2015 ,88, 317–326. [CrossRef]
15. Feng, Y.; Qiu, Y.; Crabtree, C.J.; Long, H.; Tavner, P .J. Monitoring wind turbine gearboxes. Wind Energy 2013 ,
16, 728–740. [CrossRef]
16. Liang, N.Y.; Huang, G.B.; Saratchandran, P .; Sundararajan, N. A fast and accurate online sequential learning
algorithm for feedforward networks. IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. 2006 ,17, 1411–1423. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
17. Yang, S.; Li, W.; Wang, C. The Intelligent Fault diagnosis of Wind Turbine Gearbox Based on Artiﬁcial Neural
Network. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing,
China, 21–24 April 2008.
18. Zeng, J.; Lu, D.; Zhao, Y.; Zhang, Z.; Qiao, W. Wind Turbine Fault Detection and Isolation Using Support
Vector Machine and a Residual-Based Method. In Proceedings of the American Control Conference (ACC),
Washington, DC, USA, 17–19 June 2013.
19. Tang, J.; Deng, C.; Huang, G.-B.; Zhao, B. Compressed-Domain Ship Detection on Spaceborne Optical Image
Using Deep Neural Network and Extreme Learning Machine. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens. 2015 ,53,
1174–1185. [CrossRef]
20. Huang, G.; Zhu, Q.; Mao, K.Z.; Chee-Kheong, S.; Saratchandran, P .; Sundararajan, N. Can threshold networks
be trained directly? IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II Express Briefs 2006 ,53, 187–191. [CrossRef]
21. Golestaneh, F.; Pinson, P .; Gooi, H.B. Very Short-Term Nonparametric Probabilistic Forecasting of Renewable
Energy Generation 2014—With Application to Solar Energy. IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 2016 ,31, 3850–3863.
[CrossRef]
22. Lu, X.; Liu, C.; Huang, M. Online Probabilistic Extreme Learning Machine for Distribution Modeling of
Complex Batch Forging Processes. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2015 ,11, 1277–1286. [CrossRef]
23. Sun, Z.-L.; Ng, K.M.; Soszynska-Budny, J.; Habibullah, M.S. Application of the LP-ELM Model on
Transportation System Lifetime Optimization. IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 2011 ,12, 1484–1494. [CrossRef]
24. Qian, P .; Ma, X.; Cross, P . Integrated data-driven model-based approach to condition monitoring of the wind
turbine gearbox. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2017 ,11, 1177–1185. [CrossRef]
25. Lall, P .; Gupta, P .; Goebel, K. Decorrelated Feature Space and Neural Nets Based Framework for Failure
Modes Clustering in Electronics Subjected to Mechanical Shock. IEEE Trans. Reliabil. 2012 ,61, 884–900.
[CrossRef]
26. Krishnamoorthy, K.; Mathew, T. Statistical Tolerance Regions: Theory, Applications, and Computation ; Wiley:
Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2009.
27. Tavner, P .J. Offshore Wind Turbines: Reliability, Availability & Maintenance ; IET: London, UK, 2012.
©2017 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
