Citation: Farhat, M.H.; Gelman, L.;
Conaghan, G.; Kluis, W.; Ball, A.
Novel Diagnosis Technologies for a
Lack of Oil Lubrication in Gearmotor
Systems, Based on Motor Current
Signature Analysis. Sensors 2022 ,22,
9507. https://doi.org/10.3390/
s22239507
Academic Editor: Tat-Hean Gan
Received: 4 October 2022
Accepted: 25 November 2022
Published: 5 December 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sensors
Article
Novel Diagnosis Technologies for a Lack of Oil Lubrication
in Gearmotor Systems, Based on Motor Current Signature Analysis
Mohamed Habib Farhat1
, Len Gelman1,*, Gerard Conaghan2
, Winston Kluis3and Andrew Ball1
1Department of Engineering and Technology, School of Computing and Engineering,
The University of Huddersﬁeld, Huddersﬁeld HD1 3DH, UK
2Daifuku Airport Technologies, Sutton Road, Hull HU7 0DR, UK
3Babcock International Group, Schiphol Boulevard 363, 1118 BJ Schiphol, The Netherlands
*Correspondence: l.gelman@hud.ac.uk
Abstract: Due to the wide use of gearmotor systems in industry, many diagnostic techniques have
been developed/employed to prevent their failures. An insufﬁcient lubrication of gearboxes of these
machines could shorten their life and lead to catastrophic failures and losses, making it important to
ensure a required lubrication level. For the ﬁrst time in worldwide terms, this paper proposed to
diagnose a lack of gearbox oil lubrication using motor current signature analysis (MCSA). This study
proposed, investigated, and experimentally validated two new technologies to diagnose a lack of
lubrication of gear motor systems based on MCSA. Two new diagnostic features were extracted from
the current signals of a three-phase induction motor. The effectiveness of the proposed technologies
was evaluated for different gear lubrication levels and was compared for three phases of motor
current signals and for a case of averaging the proposed diagnostic features over three phases.
The results conﬁrmed a high effectiveness of the proposed technologies for diagnosing a lack of oil
lubrication in gearmotor systems. Other contributions were as follows: (i) it was shown for the ﬁrst
time in worldwide terms, that the motor current nonlinearity level increases with the reduction of the
sgearbox oil level; (ii) novel experimental validations of the proposed two diagnostic technologies via
comprehensive experimental trials (iii) novel experimental comparisons of the diagnosis effectiveness
of the proposed two diagnostic technologies.
Keywords: gearbox; diagnostics; motor current signature analysis; signal processing
1. Introduction
Gearboxes are a key mechanical component widely used in various industries, such as
energy (wind turbines), automotive and aerospace, etc. Lubrication is a crucial factor in the
efﬁciency and operating lifetime of rotating components and improper lubrication could
cause their faults/failures. Therefore, it is important to have proper levels of lubricants in
gearboxes to insure the higher productivity, uptime, and efﬁciency of machines.
In most typical applications, gearmotor systems are exposed to high mechanical
loads and wide temperature ranges which make the decrease of their lubrication oil levels
common, either due to transformation in the oil composition (i.e., contamination by liquid
or solid impurities) or due to sudden oil leaks that can be caused by loose plugs or crankcase
perforation. Thus, it is important to have an on-line technique which can monitor the oil
levels inside gearmotor systems.
On-line sensors that are directly installed in systems and continuously monitor oil
conditions may offer a solution to these kinds of problems. Different approaches have been
performed for this purpose, including impedance spectroscopy [ 1], oil debris sensors [ 2]
and viscosity measurement [ 3]. An overview of the sensors currently used for wind
turbine gearbox oil monitoring is given in [ 4], where the sensors are tested under different
environmental conditions.
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507. https://doi.org/10.3390/s22239507 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 2 of 28
Motor current signature analysis (MCSA), which is a relatively new approach in
condition-based maintenance (CBM), has been proven to be a reliable condition monitoring
technique and has been the focus of many researchers in past years. The main reason
is that induction motors (IM) are used in many types of machinery as they are easy to
manufacture, cost-effective, reliable, and efﬁcient. In addition, collecting stator current data
is much simpler than other diagnostic techniques because no sensor should be mounted
directly on the machinery and the price of the required equipment is lower.
MCSA is becoming a commonly used approach since it can be used to detect different types
of faults in various components such as air-gap irregularities [ 5,6], broken rotor bars [ 7,8],cracked
rotor end-rings [ 9], stator faults [ 10–12], abnormal connections of the stator windings [ 13],
shaft eccentricity [ 14], and bearing and gearbox failures [ 15,16]. Overall, MCSA techniques
can be divided into two categories.
The ﬁrst category is the Park’s Vector Approach (PVA), which is a traditional method
of MCSA [ 16,17]. This approach uses three phases of current data and maps them into a
two-dimensional orthogonal space. Ideally, the resultant 2D representation has a circular
pattern centered at the origin of the coordinates in unfaulty conditions. In the presence of
damage, however, the thickness and shape of the representation differ. The variation in the
pattern of the curve indicates a faulty component. A method has been proposed to further
improve the sensitivity of this approach to the presence of damages and make PVA more
suitable to incipient fault detection [18].
The second category analyses the spectral components in the frequency domain
representation of stator current signals. Ref. [ 19] is one of the early attempts to employ
MCSA to highlight the effect of a broken bar in the current signal spectrum. Refs. [ 20–22]
show the possibility of detection of a motor shaft bearing damage of an induction motor.
Ref. [ 23] performs a spectral analysis of the squared of current signals for rotor broken bars
and rotor eccentricity diagnosis using simulation and experimental data.
Ref. [ 24] proposes Extended Park’s Vector Approach (EPVA) for stator winding faults
diagnosis, i.e., EPVA computes the modulus of Park’s vector and investigate its frequency
components. Ref. [ 25] combines EPVA and Hilbert transform to enhance the performance
of EPVA. First, the Hilbert transform of the current for three phases are computed and
then spectral analysis of the modulus of Park’s vector created by the analytic signals are
examined for detection of the occurrence of shorted turns. The Park’s vector product
approach (PVPA) is proposed in Ref. [ 26] to evaluate frequency components of the product
of the real and imaginary parts of the Park’s vector to broken bars and short-circuit. Ref. [ 18]
introduces ﬁltered Park’s and ﬁltered extended Park’s vector approach to identify broken
rotor bars in induction motors. Filtered PVA is different from traditional PVA as some
ﬁltering processes are performed on a current signal to reduce the effect of the dominant
supply frequency and other irrelevant components to a defect. In addition to using the 2D
Filtered PVA plot to display the presence of damage, its spectrum is also considered for
spectral analysis and fault-related frequency components analysis.
There are no works in the literature which have taken advantage of motor current
signals analysis to diagnose a lack of oil lubrication in gearboxes. Ref. [ 27] detects a lack
of lubrication in a gearbox of a wind turbine using generator current signature analysis
(GCSA). The current signals are recorded for various levels of oil in the gearbox. Statistical
features in the frequency domain representation of the signals are computed. Then a
statistical model using k-nearest neighbors (KNN) is developed to capture the relationship
between the frequency domain features of the current signals and the amount of oil inside
the gearbox. In addition, the accuracy of the correct classiﬁcation is calculated for various
combinations of the features to ﬁnd the most informative ones. Ref. [ 28] employs MCSA
to estimate the viscosity of oil in a gearbox. Afterwards, the variation of the estimated
viscosity is used for condition monitoring and diagnosis of the gearbox, as the viscosity
has a considerable effect on the mechanical and thermal characteristics of the machinery.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 3 of 28
Despite all the promotive results for MCSA in machinery defect diagnosis, there are
no technologies in the existing literature and on the market for diagnosing a lack of gear oil
lubrication via MCSA.
This paper proposed and investigated, for the ﬁrst time in worldwide terms, two
novel powerful diagnostic technologies for oil level diagnosis in gearmotor systems based
on MCSA. Two diagnostic features were proposed and applied for the ﬁrst time in this
study to diagnose oil level in a gearmotor, based on MCSA. The effectiveness of the
proposed technologies was evaluated using the current signals, recorded for different oil
levels in a three-phase induction gearmotor used to drive a conveyor belt system for a
baggage handling at airports. To investigate the effect of grid ﬂuctuations, two sets of data,
corresponding to two different measurement days (Day 1 and Day 2), were considered as a
reference for the standard oil level condition. The study separately used three phases of
motor current signals and diagnostic features, which were then averaged over three phases.
The main difference between the approaches/technologies proposed in this paper,
and the technology in Ref. [ 27] is that the technology in Ref. [ 27] uses GCSA, while this
paper proposed to use MCSA for diagnosis of a gear lack of lubrication. Furthermore, in
Ref. [ 27], the classical simple time domain-based diagnostic features, such as the standard
deviation, the kurtosis, and the median, are used to diagnose a gear lack of lubrication.
The physical interpretations of these features are very limited in Ref. [ 27]. Therefore, the
authors underwent a comprehensive training phase for the classiﬁer before they could
diagnose a gear lack of lubrication, and the obtained results were strongly dependent on a
training dataset, which limited the effectiveness of their method. In contrast, in this work,
the proposed technologies have a clear physical interpretation and can be used to diagnose
an oil level in any gearmotor with a very limited training phase/data.
The main novelty of the paper is a novel proposition (by L. Gelman) for the ﬁrst time
in worldwide terms, for performing the diagnosis, via MCSA, of a lack of oil lubrication of
gearboxes coupled to induction motors.
Other novelties presented in this paper included:
 The proposed novel diagnostic technology/feature, which employs the power in a
frequency range around the fundamental harmonic and the higher harmonics of the
supply frequency;
 It was shown for the ﬁrst time in worldwide terms, that the energy consumption of a
motor changes with the reduction of the gearbox oil level;
 The proposed novel diagnostic technology/feature, which employed spectral mag-
nitudes of the fundamental harmonic of the supply frequency, normalized by the
average value of the spectral magnitudes of higher harmonics of the supply frequency
in the spectrum of the current signal;
 It was shown for the ﬁrst time in worldwide terms, that motor current non-linearity
level increases with the reduction of gearbox oil levels;
 Novel experimental validations of the proposed two diagnostic technologies were
presented via comprehensive experimental trials;
 Novel experimental comparisons of the diagnosis effectiveness of the proposed two
diagnostic technologies were presented.
The objectives of this paper were to:
 develop and investigate for the ﬁrst time in worldwide terms two motor current-based
diagnosis technologies for a lack of oil lubrication diagnosis in gearboxes, connected
to induction motors;
 perform an experimental validation of the proposed technologies in diagnosing a lack
of oil lubrication in gearboxes via comprehensive experimental trials;
 perform a comparison between the proposed diagnostic technologies;
 develop a strategy for diagnosing the lack of oil lubrication in gearboxes based on the
obtained results.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 4 of 28
This paper is structured as follows. In Section 2, two diagnostic technologies are
proposed for diagnosing a lack of oil lubrication in gearmotor systems based on MCSA.
Section 3 presents the experimental setup as well as the experiments performed to validate
the effectiveness of the proposed technologies for a lack of oil lubrication for gearboxes.
Section 4 provides diagnostic results for the two proposed technologies and gives a com-
parison between their results. Finally, conclusions are summarized in Section 5.
2. Novel Diagnostic Technologies for a Lack of Gearbox Oil Lubrication
The objective of this section is to propose two novel diagnostic technologies for a
lack of oil lubrication in gearmotor systems based on motor current signature analysis.
The proposition of using the motor current signals for such diagnosis is based on the
assumption that a lack of oil lubrication of a gearbox converts into changes of the electrical
energy consumption of the motor coupled to it.
A lack of gearbox oil lubrication has an inﬂuence on motor mechanical load. Electrical
motors, subjected to a load variation, tend to adapt their produced electrical torque to
compensate for the variation of the mechanical load, which results in a variation of their
electrical energy consumption. Therefore, a method of diagnosing a lack of gear oil lubri-
cation based on the power spectral density of supply harmonics in the gearmotor current
signals was proposed.
The main idea of the proposed technology 1 is that a lack of gear oil lubrication at an
initial oil reduction stage creates less motor load, and therefore reduces motor electrical
energy consumption: i.e., less motor power is r0equired to circulate a reduced oil level
inside a gearbox. This idea is justiﬁable provided that there is still enough oil to lubricate
gear teeth and, therefore, there is still a liquid friction between gear teeth. If a solid–solid
friction between gear teeth occurs as a result of removing more oil (i.e., at an advanced oil
reduction stage), a motor energy consumption starts increasing.
If other factors will be affecting motor energy consumption, then more diagnostic
features should be employed that will effectively differentiate a lack of gear oil lubrication
from other factors.
The proposed technology 1 is based on Feature 1, which is the power in a frequency
bandwidth around the harmonics of the supply frequency, as follows:
Feature 1 =f=fk+B
2
å
f=fk B
2S(f) (1)
where S(f)is estimate of the power spectral density of the current signal at a discrete
frequency f,Bis a frequency bandwidth, that is centered around frequency fk=kfs,kis
harmonic number of the supply frequency fs.
The main idea of the proposed technology 2 is the same as for technology 1: i.e,. a
lack of gear oil lubrication creates less motor load, and, therefore, reduces motor electrical
energy consumption. However, taking into account possible intensity ﬂuctuations of the
fundamental supply harmonic, it is proposed for technology 2 to essentially reduce the
inﬂuence of these ﬂuctuations by normalizing the intensity of the fundamental supply har-
monic by the intensities of the higher supply harmonics. The proposed normalized feature
characterizes a motor current level of non-linearity. Therefore, diagnostic technology 2,
based on Feature 2 and characterizing the motor current non-linearity level, is proposed for
the ﬁrst time worldwide to diagnose a lack of gear oil lubrication in gearmotor systems.
The proposed Feature 2 is the magnitude of the fundamental harmonic of the supply
frequency, normalized by the average magnitude of the higher harmonics of the supply
frequency in the spectrum of the current signal, as follows:
Feature 2 =X1f s
1
(K 1)r
åK
k=2Xkfs2, (2)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 5 of 28
where fsis the supply frequency, Xkf sis the short time chirp-Fourier transform [ 29,30] of
the current signal x(t) at the kthharmonic of the supply frequency fs,kis harmonic number
of the supply frequency fs,K 1is the total number of the considered higher harmonics of
the supply frequency.
The following steps are needed for estimation of Feature 2:
 The instantaneous frequency (IF) of the supply grid is estimated from the current
signals, based on the Hilbert transform phase demodulation approach, Ref. [31];
 The magnitudes of the fundamental harmonic and the higher harmonics of the supply
frequency are estimated based on the short time Chirp Fourier transform, Refs. [ 29,30],
of the current signal;
 The feature is estimated based on the magnitudes of the supply frequency harmonics.
The time-frequency technique, the short time chirp-Fourier transform [ 29], is used for
feature estimation for the proposed technology instead of Fourier transform to encompass
a variation in the time of the supply frequency.
Feature 2 can be physically interpreted as a factor of non-linearity of the motor current
signal. An increase of the magnitudes of the higher harmonics of the supply frequency at a
constant or decreased magnitude of the fundamental harmonic of the supply frequency
(i.e., the increase of the non-linearity of the motor current) will result in a decrease in the
value of the feature.
3. Setup for Experimental Technology Validation
The machinery under investigation is a conveyor belt system for a baggage handling
at airports. A conveyor is driven by a gearmotor type Simens-JKE2104, consisting in a two
stages gearbox, coupled to a three-phase AC induction motor (Figure 1a). The ﬁrst stage of
the gearbox consists of helical gears (30helix angle) with a ratio of 18/37 (18-teeth pinion,
37-teeth gear) and the second stage consists of bevel gears with a ratio of 17/46 (17-teeth
pinion, 46-teeth gear). The nominal power supply frequency of the motor is 50 Hz, and its
nominal load and nominal speed are 40.6 Nm and 1440 rpm, respectively.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 30 
 
  Feature 2 =ห𝑋 ଵ∗௙௦ ห
    1
(𝐾 − 1) ∗  ට∑ ห𝑋 ௞∗௙ ೞหଶ௄
௞ୀଶ   , (2)
where 𝑓௦ is the supply frequency, 𝑋௞∗ ௙௦ is the short time chirp-Fourier transform [29,30] 
of the current signal x(t) at the kth harmonic of the supply frequency 𝑓௦, 𝑘 is harmonic 
number of the supply frequency 𝑓௦, 𝐾−1  is the total number of the considered higher 
harmonics of the supply frequency. 
The following steps are needed for estimation of Feature 2: 
• The instantaneous frequency (IF) of the supply grid  is estimated from the current 
signals, based on the Hilbert transform phase demodulation approach, Ref. [31]; 
• The magnitudes of the fundamental harmonic and the higher harmonics of the sup-
ply frequency are estimated based on the short time Chirp Fourier transform, Refs. 
[29,30], of the current signal; 
• The feature is estimated based on the magnit udes of the supply frequency harmonics. 
The time-frequency technique, the short ti me chirp-Fourier transform [29], is used 
for feature estimation for the proposed technology instead of Fourier transform to encom-
pass a variation in the time of the supply frequency. 
Feature 2 can be physically interpreted as a factor of non-linearity of the motor cur-
rent signal. An increase of the magnitudes of the higher harmonics of the supply fre-
quency at a constant or decreased magnitud e of the fundamental harmonic of the supply 
frequency (i.e., the increase of the non-linearity of the motor current) will result in a de-crease in the value of the feature. 
3. Setup for Experimental Technology Validation 
The machinery under investigation is a conveyor belt system for a baggage handling 
at airports. A conveyor is driven by a gearmotor type Simens-JKE2104, consisting in a two 
stages gearbox, coupled to a three-phase AC induction motor (Figure 1a). The first stage 
of the gearbox consists of helical gears (30° helix angle) with a ratio of 18/37 (18-teeth pin-
ion, 37-teeth gear)  and the second stage consists of bevel gears with a ratio of 17/46 (17-
teeth pinion, 46-teeth gear). The nominal power supply freque ncy of the motor is 50 Hz, 
and its nominal load and nominal speed are 40.6 Nm and 1440 rpm, respectively. 
The experiments are carried out under no-load and under 20 kg load on the conveyor. 
The load consists of a series of rollers cont ained within a frame placed on the conveyor 
belt, as shown in Figure 1b. 
  
(a) ( b) 
Figure 1. The experimental setup: ( a) the gearmotor of the conveyor belt system; and ( b) the loaded 
conveyor belt system. 
Figure 1. The experimental setup: ( a) the gearmotor of the conveyor belt system; and ( b) the loaded
conveyor belt system.
The experiments are carried out under no-load and under 20 kg load on the conveyor.
The load consists of a series of rollers contained within a frame placed on the conveyor belt,
as shown in Figure 1b.
The data acquisition system and a schematic of that system are shown in Figure 2.
The signals of three phases of the motor current are captured using LEM ATO-B10 current
sensors. These sensors belong to the ATO series, with a frequency bandwidth of 1.5 kHz
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 6 of 28
at level 1 dB. The sensors consist of a split-core current transformer used for the mea-
surement of AC waveform currents, with galvanic separation between the primary circuit
(power) and the secondary circuit (measurement). The rated primary current ( IPr) and
voltage output of the sensors are 10 A and 333 mV , respectively.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 30 
 
 The data acquisition system and a schematic of that system are shown in Figure 2. 
The signals of three phases of the motor current are captured using LEM ATO-B10 current 
sensors. These sensors belong to the ATO se ries, with a frequency bandwidth of 1.5 kHz 
at level −1 dB. The sensors consist of a split-core current transformer used for the meas-
urement of AC waveform currents, with galv anic separation between the primary circuit 
(power) and the secondary circuit (measurement). The rated primary current ( 𝐼୔୰) and 
voltage output of the sensors are 10 A and 333 mV, respectively. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 2. (a) schematic of the data acquisition system; and ( b) the data acquisition system. 
Kemo Filters  
WebDAQ card  
Current sensors  
Figure 2. (a) schematic of the data acquisition system; and ( b) the data acquisition system.
The captured analogue current signals from each phase are passed through anti-
aliasing ﬁlters of the KEMO DR 1600 type to avoid frequency aliasing during data sampling.
The KEMO ﬁlter series is a small compact signal ﬁlter unit with switchable pre-ﬁlter input
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 7 of 28
gain, wide range power input (9–30 Volts DC, 3 Wat), and a conﬁgurable input stage.
The nominal attenuation rate of these KEMO ﬁlters in the transition band is 100 dB per
octave, their bandwidth is 500 kHz, and their total harmonic distortion (THD) is lower
than 0.003%. The KEMO ﬁlter also offers adjustable input gain in 1, 2, 5 steps to 1000
(+60 dB), allowing the adjustment of the amplitude of the measured current signals to
meet the input voltage range of the utilized data acquisition card. In the present study, the
cut-off frequency, and the gain of the KEMO ﬁlters, are set to 8 kHz and 20, respectively.
The choice of 8 kHz cut-off frequency for the KEMO ﬁlters is because the frequency
bandwidth of the selected current sensors is 1.5 kHz at level  1 dB, but 8 kHz at level  6 dB;
therefore, 8 kHz cut-off frequency is selected in order not to miss an important current
information. The gain is chosen considering the input voltage range of the acquisition card.
After limiting their bandwidth and choosing their appropriate gain, the motor current
signals (output of the KEMO ﬁlters) are sampled at 51,200 Hz and recorded using a
WebDAQ 504 data acquisition card. The sampling rate of 51,200 Hz is chosen since it is the
maximum sampling rate for the WebDAQ 504 card. This maximum sampling rate ensures a
more accurate estimation of the instantaneous frequency (IF) of the supply frequency, since
at a higher sampling rate accuracy of frequency estimation is higher [ 31]. The WebDAQ 504
is a stand-alone vibration and acoustic logger designed for remote monitoring, analysis,
and control. It offers 4 IEPE inputs, simultaneous sampling, 24-bit resolution and 4 digital
I/O channels. The input frequency range of the WebDAQ 504 card is 13 MHz, its input
voltage range is +/  5 V .
The current signals of the motor are measured for different levels of oil in the gearbox.
The ﬁrst measurements are carried out under no-load conditions, where 10 signals of 20 min
duration each are acquired using a brand new gearmotor containing 1600 mL of oil (i.e.,
the standard level of oil according to manufacturer’s speciﬁcations). Then, the load is set
to 20 kg and signals are acquired for the standard oil level and when 120 mL, 260 mL,
280 mL and 490 mL of oil are removed from the gearbox. For each oil level (including the
standard oil level), 10 signals of 20 min duration, acquired at the same acquisition date,
are considered. For the case of the standard level of oil, 6 additional signals of 20 min
duration, corresponding to a different acquisition date, are also considered. From now on,
the standard oil level data acquired at two different measurement dates (under a 20 kg load)
will be called Day 1 data and Day 2 data respectively.
4. Diagnosis Effectiveness of the T echnologies and T echnology Effectiveness Comparison
In this section, the proposed diagnostic technologies, based on Feature 1 and Feature 2,
are experimentally validated for diagnosis of a lack of gearbox oil lubrication. Results
will be presented separately for diagnostic technology, based on Feature 1 and diagnostic
technology, based on Feature 2 and comparisons will be made between the results of the
two proposed technologies.
4.1. Diagnosis Effectiveness of Technology 1
Feature 1 is estimated for a 1 Hz frequency band B, Equation (1), around the ﬁrst and
the third harmonics of the supply frequency. The selected frequency band is large enough
to include the small variations of the supply frequency over time; however, it is not too
large in order to isolate the supply harmonics from other characteristic spectral components
in current spectrum.
For the multiple continuously acquired signals for 20 min and the different oil levels,
every signal is divided into 50 s time segments with an overlap of 75% and then Feature 1 is
estimated for each segment, while the power spectral density is estimated via a frequency
resolution of 0.1 Hz. This process is repeated for three phases of current data. Frequency fs
in Equation (1) is set to average of the IF of the supply frequency for each time segment,
i.e., the IF is estimated using the Hilbert transform phase demodulation approach [31].
After estimating Feature 1 for the standard oil level (Day 1), 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL,
and 490 mL of removed oil cases, the estimates of the probability density functions of
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 8 of 28
feature values for each case are evaluated via the histograms. Figure 3 displays four pairs
of histograms, for the ﬁrst phase of the current data, related to the removed oil cases and to
the standard oil level (Day 1) case. It can be noticed that all levels of oil removal have lower
feature values compared to the standard oil level and every two histograms are clearly
separated. The same behavior could be seen while considering Feature 1 for phase 2 and
phase 3, and when performing the same process as for Feature 1 for phase 1.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 30 
 
 frequency resolution of 0.1 Hz. This process is repeated for three phases of current data. 
Frequency 𝑓𝑠 in Equation (1) is set to average of the IF of the supply frequency for each 
time  segment, i.e., the IF is estimated using the Hilbert transform phase demodulation 
approach [ 31]. 
After estimating Feature 1 for the standard oil level (Day 1), 1 20 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL, 
and 4 90 mL of removed oil cases, the estimates of the probability density functions of 
feature values for each case are evaluated via the histograms. Figure 3 displays four pairs 
of histograms, for the first phase of the current data, related to the removed oil cases  and 
to the standard oil level (Day 1) case. It can be noticed that all levels of oil removal have 
lower feature values compared to the standard oil level and every two histograms are 
clearly separated. The same behavior could be seen while considering Fea ture 1 for phase 
2 and phase 3 , and when performing the same process as for Feature 1 for phase 1.  
 
Figure 3. Histograms of Feature 1 (based on the first harmonic of the supply frequency) for phase 1 
of the current signals, comparing the standard oil leve l (Day 1) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 
mL of the removed oil cases (the solid lines are the PDF, and the dashed lines are thresholds).  
To consider the influence of an oil removal on three phases simultaneously, it is pro-
posed here to employ average of  Feature 1 for three phases. The results are similar to the 
other phases and there is a clear distinction between the 4 oil removal cases and the case 
in which the gearbox is working with the standard level of oil. The results show that a 
motor energy cons umption reduces when oil is removed. The highest level of Feature 1 
occurs when the gearbox is working with the standard oil level (Day 1) and for all other 
cases of oil removal, lower quantities are achieved for Feature 1. Hence, the energy level 
of the f irst harmonic of the supply frequency has the potential for monitoring/diagnosis 
of the oil level in gearboxes.  
These histograms clearly highlight the main idea of technology 1, that a lack of gear 
oil lubrication at initial oil removal stage creates less motor load, and therefore reduces 
motor electrical energy consumption: i.e. , less motor power is required to circulate re-
duced oil inside the gearbox , and therefore less average power is in a frequency range 
around the fundamental harmonic of the supply fr equency (i.e. , lower  values of Feature1).  
Figure 3. Histograms of Feature 1 (based on the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency) for phase 1 of
the current signals, comparing the standard oil level (Day 1) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL
of the removed oil cases (the solid lines are the PDF, and the dashed lines are thresholds).
To consider the inﬂuence of an oil removal on three phases simultaneously, it is
proposed here to employ average of Feature 1 for three phases. The results are similar to
the other phases and there is a clear distinction between the 4 oil removal cases and the
case in which the gearbox is working with the standard level of oil. The results show that a
motor energy consumption reduces when oil is removed. The highest level of Feature 1
occurs when the gearbox is working with the standard oil level (Day 1) and for all other
cases of oil removal, lower quantities are achieved for Feature 1. Hence, the energy level of
the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency has the potential for monitoring/diagnosis of
the oil level in gearboxes.
These histograms clearly highlight the main idea of technology 1, that a lack of gear
oil lubrication at initial oil removal stage creates less motor load, and therefore reduces
motor electrical energy consumption: i.e., less motor power is required to circulate reduced
oil inside the gearbox, and therefore less average power is in a frequency range around the
fundamental harmonic of the supply frequency (i.e., lower values of Feature1).
To estimate the total probability of correct diagnosis (TPOCD), which is the ratio of
correctly diagnosed cases to the total number of cases for each two data sets presented in
the histograms, ﬁrstly, a threshold should be deﬁned. Afterwards, if the value of Feature 1
for an oil-removed case is lower than the deﬁned threshold, then this oil-removed case
is correctly diagnosed. Conversely, the standard oil case is correctly diagnosed once its
Feature 1 value is higher than the deﬁned threshold.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 9 of 28
For one-dimensional Feature 1, the estimates of the probability density functions of
this feature (Figure 3) are unimodal for the standard oil level case and for removed oil
cases. Therefore, considering the unimodality of the estimates of the probability density
functions of Feature 1, a simple and effective threshold-based decision-making rule is used
via the Bayes criterion. Such a decision-making rule is effective and sufﬁcient only for
one-dimensional features with unimodal probability density functions and it is not the
most accurate decision-making rule for other possible types of probabilities density func-
tions even for one-dimensional diagnostic features (e.g. multimodal probabilities density
functions). The advantage of the threshold-based rule is that the computational complex-
ity is the lowest compared with other decision-making rules (e.g. neural network, etc.).
This advantage is important for industrial applications. For more complicated probability
density functions of Feature 1 and Feature 2, the implementation of a three-stage artiﬁcial
intelligence decision-making rule [ 32,33] is proposed, including a k-nearest neighbor (KNN)
anomaly detection method, a fault detection method and a fault diagnosis method.
To estimate a threshold for each pair of histograms of Feature 1, assuming, that
Feature 1 has the normal distribution, the normal (i.e., the Gaussian) probability density
functions (PDF) of the Feature 1 are estimated for every oil level. Next, an intersection point
of two PDFs is utilized as the threshold value. The histograms, PDFs and the decision-
making thresholds are depicted in Figure 3.
The TPOCDs, using the above-mentioned decision-making procedure, are given in
Figure 4 for all levels of the removed oil. The TPOCD shows a high effectiveness for three
phases of the current data and for average feature.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 9 of 30 
 
 To estimate the total probability of correct diagnosis (TPOCD), which is the ratio of 
correctly diagnosed cases to the total number of  cases for each two data sets presented in 
the histograms, firstly, a threshold should be defined. Afterwards, if the value of Feature 1 for an oil-removed case is lower than the de fined threshold, then this oil-removed case 
is correctly diagnosed. Conversely, the standard oil case is correctly diagnosed once its 
Feature 1 value is higher than the defined threshold. 
For one-dimensional Feature 1, the estimate s of the probability density functions of 
this feature (Figure 3) are unimodal for the standard oil level case and for removed oil cases. Therefore, considering the unimodality of the estimates of the probability density 
functions of Feature 1, a simple and effective threshold-based decision-making rule is 
used via the Bayes criterion. Such a decision-making rule is effective and sufficient only for one-dimensional features with unimodal probability density functions and it is not the 
most accurate decision-making rule for other possible types of probabilities density func-
tions even for one-dimensional diagnostic features (e. g. multimodal probabilities density 
functions). The advantage of the threshold-based rule is that the computational complex-
ity is the lowest compared with other decision-making rules (e. g. neural network, etc.). This advantage is important for industrial a pplications. For more complicated probability 
density functions of Feature 1 and Feature 2, th e implementation of a three-stage artificial 
intelligence decision-making rule [32,33] is  proposed, including a k-nearest neighbor 
(KNN) anomaly detection method, a fault dete ction method and a fault diagnosis method. 
To estimate a threshold for each pair of hi stograms of Feature 1, assuming, that Fea-
ture 1 has the normal distribution, the normal (i.e., the Gaussian) probability density func-
tions (PDF) of the Feature 1 are estimated for every oil level. Next, an intersection point of 
two PDFs is utilized as the threshold value.  The histograms, PDFs and the decision-mak-
ing thresholds are depicted in Figure 3. 
The TPOCDs, using the above-mentioned de cision-making procedure, are given in 
Figure 4 for all levels of the removed oil. The TPOCD shows a high effectiveness for three 
phases of the current data  and for average feature. 
 
Figure 4. The TPOCD, provided by tec hnology 1 (based on the first harmonic of the supply fre-
quency) for three phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
The Fisher Criterion (FC) is defined as: 
FC =|𝑚ଵ−𝑚 ଶ|ଶ
𝜎ଵଶ+𝜎ଶଶ (3)
where 𝑚 and 𝜎 are the mean value and standard deviation of the feature values for each 
class of data, respectively, e.g., the standard  oil level class and the removed oil classes. 
The FC is an indicator of the level of separation between two classes of one-dimen-
sional data. Thus, it is employed to quantify  a separation between histograms of the stand-
ard oil level and of the removed oil cases. 
The total probability o f correct diagnosis (%)
Figure 4. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (based on the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency)
for three phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1).
The Fisher Criterion (FC) is deﬁned as:
FC=jm1 m2j2
s2
1+s2
2(3)
where mandsare the mean value and standard deviation of the feature values for each
class of data, respectively, e.g., the standard oil level class and the removed oil classes.
The FC is an indicator of the level of separation between two classes of one-dimensional
data. Thus, it is employed to quantify a separation between histograms of the standard oil
level and of the removed oil cases.
The FC are given in Figure 5 for all investigated cases. The results show that while the
TPOCD are almost 100% for all cases, the features of phases 2 and 3 are better separated
than the features of phase 1, as their FC are higher. Moreover, the level of separation
between 120 mL or 260 mL cases and the standard oil level case (Day 1) is higher, compared
to 280 mL or 490 mL of the removed oil cases. So, the effect of lower oil removal is more
noticeable on the current signals, and while the amount of the removed oil increases, the
effectiveness of the technology slightly decreases.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 10 of 28
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 10 of 30 
 
 The FC are given in Figure 5 for all investigated cases. The results show that while 
the TPOCD are almost 100% for all cases, the fe atures of phases 2 and 3 are better sepa-
rated than the features of phase 1, as their FC are higher. Moreover, the level of separation between 120 mL or 260 mL cases and the standard oil level case (Day 1) is higher, com-
pared to 280 mL or 490 mL of the removed oil cases. So, the effect of lower oil removal is 
more noticeable on the current signals, and wh ile the amount of the removed oil increases, 
the effectiveness of the technology slightly decreases. 
 
Figure 5. The FC of Feature 1 (the first harmonic of the supply frequency) for three phases and 4 
levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
The TPOCD and the FC results reveal that at  the early stage of oil removal, namely 
in the 120 mL and 260 mL cases, the separation between the standard oil level and the 
removed oil cases are higher, as a higher TP OCD and the FC are obtained. While the level 
of removed oil increases to 280 mL and 490 mL, the values of Feature 1 for these cases get 
closer to the standard oil level case, as a result, the TPOCD and the FC decreases. This is explained by the fact that, when a small amount  of oil is removed at the beginning of the 
test, resisting force against the flow of the oi l decreases; therefore, less motor power is 
required to circulate oil inside the gearbox resulting in reduction of Feature 1 values. 
Further increase in the power usage of the electric motor by removing more oil, which 
leads to a lower TPOCD and the FC, is due to an improper lubrication of the gears. This is because by removing more oil, part of the liquid friction is transferred to a solid–solid 
friction between gear teeth; thus, more motor power is required due to solid–solid gear 
tooth friction. 
To further investigate the effect of oil removal on the first harmonic of the supply 
frequency, standard oil level data is consider ed for a different day of the experiment (Day 
2). Similar to the previous standard oil level data (Day 1), the values of Feature 1 for 120 
mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL are compared to the standard oil case (Day 2) for three 
phases. The histograms are depicted in the Appendix A, Figure A1 for phase 1, where here and in the whole paper, Figures with notation  “A” are depicted in the Appendix A. In 
contrast to Day 1, Feature 1 for Day 2 data shows lower values and, therefore, its proba-
bility density function moves toward the “removed oil” probability density function, and, 
as a result, the overlap between two distribu tions increases. The TPOCD, considering Day 
2 data, for the 4 levels of oil removal and three phases of current signals are given in Figure A2. 
The TPOCD decreases in comparison to the ones. obtained for Day 1, though, in most 
cases, the two distributions are still separabl e. The highest TPOCD is achieved by using 
current signals of phase 3 among the three phases; the average of Feature 1 for all phases 
also provides a high TPOCD. The FC is given in Figure A3; because of the high level of overlap between distributions, low FC values are obtained in comparison with Day 1 data. 
Overall, while the average of Feature 1 over  three phases does not always offer the 
highest TPOCD for each condition, it is the most reliable indicator as it integrates all in-formation of three phases, related to oil re moval, and, therefore, high TPOCDs are 
Figure 5. The FC of Feature 1 (the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency) for three phases and
4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1).
The TPOCD and the FC results reveal that at the early stage of oil removal, namely
in the 120 mL and 260 mL cases, the separation between the standard oil level and the
removed oil cases are higher, as a higher TPOCD and the FC are obtained. While the level
of removed oil increases to 280 mL and 490 mL, the values of Feature 1 for these cases get
closer to the standard oil level case, as a result, the TPOCD and the FC decreases. This is
explained by the fact that, when a small amount of oil is removed at the beginning of the
test, resisting force against the ﬂow of the oil decreases; therefore, less motor power is
required to circulate oil inside the gearbox resulting in reduction of Feature 1 values.
Further increase in the power usage of the electric motor by removing more oil, which
leads to a lower TPOCD and the FC, is due to an improper lubrication of the gears. This is
because by removing more oil, part of the liquid friction is transferred to a solid–solid
friction between gear teeth; thus, more motor power is required due to solid–solid gear
tooth friction.
To further investigate the effect of oil removal on the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply
frequency, standard oil level data is considered for a different day of the experiment (Day 2).
Similar to the previous standard oil level data (Day 1), the values of Feature 1 for 120 mL,
260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL are compared to the standard oil case (Day 2) for three phases.
The histograms are depicted in the Appendix A, Figure A1 for phase 1, where here and in
the whole paper, Figures with notation “A” are depicted in the Appendix A. In contrast to
Day 1, Feature 1 for Day 2 data shows lower values and, therefore, its probability density
function moves toward the “removed oil” probability density function, and, as a result, the
overlap between two distributions increases. The TPOCD, considering Day 2 data, for the
4 levels of oil removal and three phases of current signals are given in Figure A2.
The TPOCD decreases in comparison to the ones. obtained for Day 1, though, in most
cases, the two distributions are still separable. The highest TPOCD is achieved by using
current signals of phase 3 among the three phases; the average of Feature 1 for all phases
also provides a high TPOCD. The FC is given in Figure A3; because of the high level of
overlap between distributions, low FC values are obtained in comparison with Day 1 data.
Overall, while the average of Feature 1 over three phases does not always offer the
highest TPOCD for each condition, it is the most reliable indicator as it integrates all
information of three phases, related to oil removal, and, therefore, high TPOCDs are
achieved even when one of the phases does not provide enough information to properly
distinguish between the standard oil level case and the removed oil cases. For instance, for
Day 2 and 260 mL of the removed oil case, the TPOCD of 99% is obtained for the average
feature, which is higher, than the 52% and 79% of the TPOCD, achieved for phases 1 and 2,
respectively. Considering the average feature, the highest TPOCD is obtained for the 260 mL
case and, after that, 120 mL, 280 mL, and 490 mL cases provide less level of the TPOCD.
The results show that, while the energy level of the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply
frequency has some potential to diagnose different levels of oil inside the gearbox, it could
also vary for reasons other than the oil level; as it is shown, Feature 1 values change while
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 11 of 28
considering standard oil level data acquired in two different days. To show this variation,
Feature 1 for the standard oil level data (Day 1 + Day 2) are compared to the removed
oil cases. The histograms are depicted in Figure A4 for phase 1. There are two separated
data clusters in the feature distribution for standard oil level data, which are associated
with the different days of the standard oil level experiment. In addition, it can be seen
that the assumption of the normal probability density functions for the distribution of
Feature 1 is invalid under this circumstance. The TPOCD and the FC for three phases and
4 levels of oil removal compared to standard oil level data (Day 1 + Day 2) are shown
in Figures A5 and A6, indicating that 120 mL and 260 mL of removed oil cases are more
effectively diagnosed compared to 280 mL and 490 mL of removed oil cases and Feature 1
of phase 3 and average Feature 1 over three phases provide a higher TPOCD in comparison
to Feature 1 of phases 1 and 2.
The first harmonic of the supply frequency is by far the strongest harmonic. The recorded
current signals also include other harmonics of the supply frequency, but the magnitudes
of the even harmonics are negligible. As was mentioned, Feature 1, estimated for the first
harmonic, shows some variations when the data recorded for different days are used. In the
following section, the TPOCD and the FC will be estimated for the third harmonic of the supply
frequency to investigate diagnosis information it contains regarding the removed oil levels.
Considering Day 1 and Day 2 data, the TPOCDs for different levels of the removed oil and
three phases for the third harmonic of the supply frequency are displayed in Figures 6 and 7, while
the FC are shown in Figures 8 and 9. The results for Day 1 show that the power of the third
harmonic does not include the same amount of information regarding removed gear oil
levels, if compared to the power of the ﬁrst harmonic and its TPOCD is considerably lower.
For instance, the 120 mL case is mostly not detectable using Feature 1 for phases 1 and 3;
Feature 1 for phase 2 provides a 75% of the TPOCD, which is lower, than the TPOCD of
100%, obtained for Feature 1 for the ﬁrst harmonic. In addition, Feature 1 for phase 3 is
able mainly to detect 260 mL case to some extent, and fails to diagnose most cases for
the other oil levels. In contrast, considering Day 2 data, Feature 1 for the third harmonic
provides comparable outcomes to Feature 1 for the ﬁrst harmonic in most cases and even
outperforms it in some cases, such as for phase 1 and 260 mL, 280 mL, and 490 mL of the
removed oil. Although it should be mentioned that, using Feature 1 for the third harmonic,
most of the data for Day and Day 2, related to 120 mL case, are not diagnosed correctly.
Considering the average feature, the highest TPOCD is achieved for 260 mL case while
120 mL case has the lowest TPOCD for both Day 1 and Day 2. In addition, the TPOCD for
280 mL of the removed oil case is higher than for 490 mL of the removed oil case.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 30 
 
  
Figure 6. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the th ird harmonic of the supply frequency), for 
three phases and 4 levels of oil removal co mpared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
 
Figure 7. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the th ird harmonic of the supply frequency) for 
three phases and 4 levels of oil removal co mpared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
 
Figure 8. The FC of Feature 1 (the third harmonic of the supply frequency) for three phases and 4 
levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
The total probability of correct diagnosis (% )
 The total probability of correct diagnosis (%)
Figure 6. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the third harmonic of the supply frequency), for
three phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 12 of 28
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 30 
 
  
Figure 6. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the th ird harmonic of the supply frequency), for 
three phases and 4 levels of oil removal co mpared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
 
Figure 7. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the th ird harmonic of the supply frequency) for 
three phases and 4 levels of oil removal co mpared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
 
Figure 8. The FC of Feature 1 (the third harmonic of the supply frequency) for three phases and 4 
levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
The total probability of correct diagnosis (% )
 The total probability of correct diagnosis (%)
Figure 7. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the third harmonic of the supply frequency) for
three phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 2).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 30 
 
  
Figure 6. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the th ird harmonic of the supply frequency), for 
three phases and 4 levels of oil removal co mpared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
 
Figure 7. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the th ird harmonic of the supply frequency) for 
three phases and 4 levels of oil removal co mpared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
 
Figure 8. The FC of Feature 1 (the third harmonic of the supply frequency) for three phases and 4 
levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
The total probability of correct diagnosis (% )
 The total probability of correct diagnosis (%)
Figure 8. The FC of Feature 1 (the third harmonic of the supply frequency) for three phases and
4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 13 of 30 
 
 . 
Figure 9. The FC of Feature 1 (the third harmonic of the supply frequency) for three phases and 4 
levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
4.2. Diagnosis Effectiveness of Technology 2 
To validate the diagnosis effectiveness of technology 2, effectiveness is estimated 
from the current signals, acquired for the different oil level cases. The acquired 20-min 
current signals are divided into 100 s non-ov erlapping segments an d Feature 2 is esti-
mated for each segment following the steps expl ained in Section 2. Instead of considering 
the CFT of the 100 s segments for feature es timation, each 100 s se gment is subdivided 
into two non-overlapping 50 s sub-segments an d average of CFTs of both sub-segments 
is obtained, i.e., the employed frequency resolu tion is 0.02 Hz. The purpose of the averag-
ing is to reduce variance of a feature estima te. The total number of the higher harmonics 
of the supply frequency is selected as 19 as magnitudes of the higher harmonics of order 
20 and more are very low; so, they can be neglected to speed up a feature estimation. 
Following estimation of Feature 2 from the current signals corresponding respec-
tively to the standard oil level (Day 1) and the 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL, and 490 mL of oil 
removal cases, estimates of the probability de nsity functions of feature values are evalu-
ated and compared, using histograms. Figure 10 shows histograms of Feature 2, extracted 
from the current signals of phase 1, for the di fferent oil removal cases, with respect to the 
standard oil level case (Day 1). 
From the histograms, it can be noticed that Feature 2 values are decreasing (i.e., motor 
current non-linearity is increasing) as oil is re moved. However, at 120 mL level of removal, 
overlaps are observed between histograms fo r all phases. The overlaps become less fre-
quent in the case of 260 mL of the removed oil for histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 and 
phase 2 and no overlap is seen for the histograms of phase 3. For the cases of 280 mL and 490 mL of the removed oil, a complete separati on is observed with re spect to the standard 
oil level (Day 1) in all appropriate histograms. It means, that for 280 mL and 490 mL of the 
removed oil, the estimates of the TPOCD are 100% for all phases. Overall, Feature 2 for 
phase 3 shows better separation compared to Feature 2 for phase 1 and phase 2. 
To make technology 2 more stable (robust) in conditions of possible variations of 
phase currents, it is proposed here to aver age values of Feature 2 over three phases. 
 
The Fisher criterion
Figure 9. The FC of Feature 1 (the third harmonic of the supply frequency) for three phases and
4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 2).
4.2. Diagnosis Effectiveness of Technology 2
To validate the diagnosis effectiveness of technology 2, effectiveness is estimated from
the current signals, acquired for the different oil level cases. The acquired 20-min current
signals are divided into 100 s non-overlapping segments and Feature 2 is estimated for
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 13 of 28
each segment following the steps explained in Section 2. Instead of considering the CFT
of the 100 s segments for feature estimation, each 100 s segment is subdivided into two
non-overlapping 50 s sub-segments and average of CFTs of both sub-segments is obtained,
i.e., the employed frequency resolution is 0.02 Hz. The purpose of the averaging is to
reduce variance of a feature estimate. The total number of the higher harmonics of the
supply frequency is selected as 19 as magnitudes of the higher harmonics of order 20 and
more are very low; so, they can be neglected to speed up a feature estimation.
Following estimation of Feature 2 from the current signals corresponding respectively
to the standard oil level (Day 1) and the 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL, and 490 mL of oil removal
cases, estimates of the probability density functions of feature values are evaluated and
compared, using histograms. Figure 10 shows histograms of Feature 2, extracted from the
current signals of phase 1, for the different oil removal cases, with respect to the standard
oil level case (Day 1).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW  14 of 30 
 
  
Figure 10. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil 
level (Day 1) to 12 0 mL,  260 mL,  280 mL and 49 0 mL of the r emoved oil cases (the solid lines are the 
PDF, and the dashed lines are thresholds).  
These histograms clearly highlight the main idea of technology 2, that a lack of gear 
oil lubrication at initial oil removal stage creates less motor load, and, therefore,  reduces 
motor electrical energy consumption: i.e. , less motor power is required to circulate re-
duced oil inside the gearbox and, therefore, it is:  
• decreasing magnitude of the fundamental supply frequency harmonic ; 
• increasing magnitudes of the higher supply frequency harmonics ; 
• increasing motor current level of non -linearity (i.e. , less values of Feature 2).  
For one -dimensional Feature 2, the estimates of the probability density functions of 
this feature (Figure 10) are also unimodal for the standard oil level case and for removed 
oil cases. Therefore, taking into account this unimodality property, a simple and effective 
threshold -based decision -making rule is also employed via the Bayes criterion. Assuming, 
that Feat ure 2 has the normal distribution, the normal (i.e. , the Gaussian) probability den-
sity functions (PDF) of the Feature 1 are estimated for every oil level. The estimates of the 
TPOCD and the FC are evaluated, based on the histograms of Feature 2, and result s are 
summarized in Figures 11 and 12 respectively.  
 
Figure 11. The estimates of the TPOCD , provided by technology 2 for three phases and  4 levels of 
oil removal  compared to the standard  oil level (Day 1).  
Figure 10. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil
level (Day 1) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of the removed oil cases (the solid lines are the
PDF, and the dashed lines are thresholds).
From the histograms, it can be noticed that Feature 2 values are decreasing (i.e., motor
current non-linearity is increasing) as oil is removed. However, at 120 mL level of removal,
overlaps are observed between histograms for all phases. The overlaps become less frequent
in the case of 260 mL of the removed oil for histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 and phase
2 and no overlap is seen for the histograms of phase 3. For the cases of 280 mL and 490 mL
of the removed oil, a complete separation is observed with respect to the standard oil level
(Day 1) in all appropriate histograms. It means, that for 280 mL and 490 mL of the removed
oil, the estimates of the TPOCD are 100% for all phases. Overall, Feature 2 for phase 3
shows better separation compared to Feature 2 for phase 1 and phase 2.
To make technology 2 more stable (robust) in conditions of possible variations of phase
currents, it is proposed here to average values of Feature 2 over three phases.
These histograms clearly highlight the main idea of technology 2, that a lack of gear
oil lubrication at initial oil removal stage creates less motor load, and, therefore, reduces
motor electrical energy consumption: i.e., less motor power is required to circulate reduced
oil inside the gearbox and, therefore, it is:
 decreasing magnitude of the fundamental supply frequency harmonic;
 increasing magnitudes of the higher supply frequency harmonics;
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 14 of 28
 increasing motor current level of non-linearity (i.e., less values of Feature 2).
For one-dimensional Feature 2, the estimates of the probability density functions of
this feature (Figure 10) are also unimodal for the standard oil level case and for removed
oil cases. Therefore, taking into account this unimodality property, a simple and effective
threshold-based decision-making rule is also employed via the Bayes criterion. Assuming,
that Feature 2 has the normal distribution, the normal (i.e., the Gaussian) probability density
functions (PDF) of the Feature 1 are estimated for every oil level. The estimates of the
TPOCD and the FC are evaluated, based on the histograms of Feature 2, and results are
summarized in Figures 11 and 12 respectively.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 30 
 
  
Figure 10. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil 
level (Day 1) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of  the removed oil cases (the solid lines are the 
PDF, and the dashed lin es are thresholds). 
These histograms clearly highlight the main idea of technology 2, that a lack of gear 
oil lubrication at initial oil removal stage creates less motor load, and, therefore, reduces 
motor electrical energy consumption: i.e., le ss motor power is required to circulate re-
duced oil inside the gearbox and, therefore, it is: 
• decreasing magnitude of the fundamental supply frequency harmonic; 
• increasing magnitudes of the higher supply frequency harmonics; 
• increasing motor current level of non-li nearity (i.e., less values of Feature 2). 
For one-dimensional Feature 2, the estimate s of the probability density functions of 
this feature (Figure 10) are also unimodal fo r the standard oil level case and for removed 
oil cases. Therefore, taking into account this  unimodality property, a simple and effective 
threshold-based decision-making rule is also employed via the Bayes criterion. Assuming, 
that Feature 2 has the normal distribution, the normal (i.e., the Gaussian) probability den-sity functions (PDF) of the Feature 1 are estima ted for every oil level. The estimates of the 
TPOCD and the FC are evaluated, based on the histograms of Feature 2, and results are 
summarized in Figures 11 and 12 respectively. 
 
Figure 11. The estimates of the TPOCD, provided by te chnology 2 for three phases and 4 levels of 
oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)80859095100The total probability of correct diagnosis ( %
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Average
Figure 11. The estimates of the TPOCD, provided by technology 2 for three phases and 4 levels of oil
removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 15 of 30 
 
  
Figure 12. The FC of Feature 2 for three phases and 4 leve ls of oil removal compared to the standard 
oil level for Day 1. 
For the case of 260 mL of the removed oil, Feature 2 of phase 3 offers a better TPOCD 
than those of phase 1 and phase 2. In contrast, for the case of 120 mL of the removed oil, Feature 2 of phases 1 and 2 offers better TPOCD than those of phase 3 (i.e., higher TPOCD 
and the FC). Thus, Feature 2, estimated from phases 1 and 2, is more effective in the diag-
nosis of early stage of oil removal and Feature 2 estimated from phase 3, is becoming more 
effective as the amount of the removed oil in creases. Averaging of Feature 2 across the 
three phases provides reasonable TPOCD for all levels of oil removal, but the TPOCD of phase 3 are still the best. 
Altogether, feature averaging over the three phases could be a useful indicator since 
it provides good results even if Feature 2 for one of the phases (i.e., for phase 1 for 260 mL 
of the removed oil) provides not sufficient level of diagnosis effectiveness, which can be 
explained by a high correlation between feat ures corresponding to the different phases. 
To examine the effect of the current grid fluctuation on the performance of technol-
ogy 2, the current signals, related to the stan dard oil level and collected on a different day 
of measurement (Day 2), are considered. Figu re A7 shows histograms of Feature 2, ex-
tracted from the current signals of phase 1, for the different oil removal cases, with respect 
to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
It can be noticed from all histograms, that  for Day 2, Feature 2 values are also de-
creasing (i.e., motor current no n-linearity is increasing) as oil is removed. The TPOCD and 
the FC for the considered oil removals for Day 2 are presented in Figures A8 and A9, respectively. 
When using signals of Day 2 as a reference,  an overlap is observed with data, corre-
sponding to 120 mL oil removal, and a low TPOCD and the FC are obtained. Feature val-
ues tend to increase as 260 mL of oil is remo ved, but with an overlap for the data of Day 
2. The feature overlap is greater for phase 1, and less for phase 3, making Feature 2 of phase 3 the most sensitive in th e case of 260 mL of the removed oil. For the cases of 280 
mL and 490 mL of the removed oil, a complete separation is observed with respect to data 
of Day 2 for all phases (meaning a 100% TPOCD), and Feature 2 of phase 3 offers the best 
separation between distributions (i.e., highest FC). 
The results, obtained by averaging the three phases (averaged TPOCD and averaged 
FC), are better than those obtained when using Feature 2 for phase 1 and phase 2 sepa-
rately, except for the case of 120 mL of the removed oil, where Feature 2 of phase 2 offers 
a slightly better TPOCD and the FC. On the contrary, Feature 2 for phase 3 shows better 
TPOCD and the FC than Feature 1, averaged over three phases for the 260 mL, 280 mL 
and 490 mL of the removed oil cases and lower performance in the case of 120 mL of the removed oil. 
To evaluate the overall performance of technology 2 in diagnosis of a lack of gearbox 
oil lubrication, diagnosis is also performed using data of (Day1 + Day 2) as a reference for 
The Fisher criterion
Figure 12. The FC of Feature 2 for three phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard
oil level for Day 1.
For the case of 260 mL of the removed oil, Feature 2 of phase 3 offers a better TPOCD
than those of phase 1 and phase 2. In contrast, for the case of 120 mL of the removed
oil, Feature 2 of phases 1 and 2 offers better TPOCD than those of phase 3 (i.e., higher
TPOCD and the FC). Thus, Feature 2, estimated from phases 1 and 2, is more effective in the
diagnosis of early stage of oil removal and Feature 2 estimated from phase 3, is becoming
more effective as the amount of the removed oil increases. Averaging of Feature 2 across
the three phases provides reasonable TPOCD for all levels of oil removal, but the TPOCD
of phase 3 are still the best.
Altogether, feature averaging over the three phases could be a useful indicator since it
provides good results even if Feature 2 for one of the phases (i.e., for phase 1 for 260 mL
of the removed oil) provides not sufﬁcient level of diagnosis effectiveness, which can be
explained by a high correlation between features corresponding to the different phases.
To examine the effect of the current grid ﬂuctuation on the performance of technology 2,
the current signals, related to the standard oil level and collected on a different day of
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 15 of 28
measurement (Day 2), are considered. Figure A7 shows histograms of Feature 2, extracted
from the current signals of phase 1, for the different oil removal cases, with respect to the
standard oil level (Day 2).
It can be noticed from all histograms, that for Day 2, Feature 2 values are also decreasing
(i.e., motor current non-linearity is increasing) as oil is removed. The TPOCD and the FC for the
considered oil removals for Day 2 are presented in Figures A8 and A9, respectively .
When using signals of Day 2 as a reference, an overlap is observed with data, corre-
sponding to 120 mL oil removal, and a low TPOCD and the FC are obtained. Feature values
tend to increase as 260 mL of oil is removed, but with an overlap for the data of Day 2.
The feature overlap is greater for phase 1, and less for phase 3, making Feature 2 of phase 3
the most sensitive in the case of 260 mL of the removed oil. For the cases of 280 mL and
490 mL of the removed oil, a complete separation is observed with respect to data of Day 2
for all phases (meaning a 100% TPOCD), and Feature 2 of phase 3 offers the best separation
between distributions (i.e., highest FC).
The results, obtained by averaging the three phases (averaged TPOCD and averaged FC),
are better than those obtained when using Feature 2 for phase 1 and phase 2 separately,
except for the case of 120 mL of the removed oil, where Feature 2 of phase 2 offers a slightly
better TPOCD and the FC. On the contrary, Feature 2 for phase 3 shows better TPOCD and
the FC than Feature 1, averaged over three phases for the 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of
the removed oil cases and lower performance in the case of 120 mL of the removed oil.
To evaluate the overall performance of technology 2 in diagnosis of a lack of gearbox
oil lubrication, diagnosis is also performed using data of (Day1 + Day 2) as a reference for
the standard oil level condition. Figure A10 shows histograms of the values of Feature 2,
extracted from the current signals of phase 1, for the different oil removal cases, with
respect to the standard oil level data of (Day 1 + Day 2). The TPOCD and the FC, related to
the comparison of Feature 2 values for all the considered oil removals versus the standard
oil level (Day 1 + Day 2), are summarized in Figures A11 and A12, respectively.
When using signals of (Day 1 + Day 2) as a reference, a low TPOCD and the FC are
obtained in the case of 120 mL of removed oil for three phases and when averaging over all
phases. This is reﬂected for the histograms by a complete overlap between features for the
standard oil condition (Day 1 + Day 2) and features for 120 mL of the removed oil. When
260 mL of oil is removed, Feature 2 of phase 3 offers the best TPOCD (98%), followed by
Feature 2 of phase 2 (85%), then Feature 2 of phase 1 offers a poor diagnosis (68%), and the
TPOCD of 92% is obtained for averaging Feature 2 across the three phases. Furthermore, a
very good match is observed between the FC values and the degree of overlap (a visual
interpretation) between the histograms, corresponding to the different phases, i.e., the
lower the FC values, the higher the overlap, observed between histograms.
When 280 mL and 490 mL of oil is removed, Feature 2 for all phases and average
of Feature 2 for all phases offer a high diagnosis effectiveness, i.e., all TPOCDs are 100%,
except for phase 1, 490 mL; however, the TPOCD is also high, at 97%, for the last case.
Using Day 1 or Day 2 data separately, a 100% TPOCD is achieved for 280 mL and
490 mL of the removed oil from those of Day 1 and Day 2 signals for all phases. Feature 2 of
phase 3 proved to be the most sensitive in the case 280 mL and 490 mL of the removed oil
as it offers a better separation between the distributions compared to Feature 2 of phase 1
and phase 2.
While results of feature averaging across the three phases are better than results for
Feature 2 for phase 1 and phase 2 for 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL the removed oil cases,
results for Feature 2 for phase 3 are better, than results for average feature over three phases
for most of oil removal cases, except for the case of 120 mL of the removed oil.
As explained in Section 2, Feature 2 is the magnitude of the fundamental harmonic of
the supply frequency normalized by the average magnitude of the higher harmonics of the
supply frequency. To investigate the main reasons for the decrease of Feature 2 with oil
removal (i.e., is this decrease due to the increase of the magnitudes of the supply frequency
higher harmonics or/and due to the increase of the magnitude of the fundamental harmonic
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 16 of 28
of the supply frequency), the average magnitude of the fundamental harmonic of the
supply frequency and the average magnitude of the supply frequency higher harmonics
are compared for the data, corresponding to the standard oil level (Day 1), and for the data
corresponding to the case of 280 mL of the removed oil. Results are plotted in Figure 13.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 16 of 30 
 
 the standard oil level condition. Figure A10 shows histograms of the values of Feature 2, 
extracted from the current signals of phase 1, for the different oil removal cases, with re-
spect to the standard oil level data of (Day  1 + Day 2). The TPOCD and the FC, related to 
the comparison of Feature 2 values for all the considered oil removals versus the standard 
oil level (Day 1 + Day 2), are summarized in Figures A11 and A12, respectively. 
When using signals of (Day 1 + Day 2) as a reference, a low TPOCD and the FC are 
obtained in the case of 120 mL of removed oil for three phases and when averaging over 
all phases. This is reflected for the histograms  by a complete overlap between features for 
the standard oil condition (Day 1 + Day 2) and features for 120 mL of the removed oil. 
When 260 mL of oil is removed, Feature 2 of  phase 3 offers the best TPOCD (98%), fol-
lowed by Feature 2 of phase 2 (85%), then Fe ature 2 of phase 1 offers a poor diagnosis 
(68%), and the TPOCD of 92% is obtained for averaging Feature 2 across the three phases. 
Furthermore, a very good match is observed between the FC values and the degree of 
overlap (a visual interpretation) between the histograms, corresponding to the different 
phases, i.e., the lower the FC values, the high er the overlap, observed between histograms. 
When 280 mL and 490 mL of oil is removed, Feature 2 for all phases and average of 
Feature 2 for all phases offer a high diagnosi s effectiveness, i.e., all TPOCDs are 100%, 
except for phase 1, 490 mL; however, the TPOCD is also high, at 97%, for the last case. 
Using Day 1 or Day 2 data separately, a 100% TPOCD is achieved for 280 mL and 490 
mL of the removed oil from those of Day 1 and Day 2 signals for all phases. Feature 2 of 
phase 3 proved to be the most sensitive in the case 280 mL and 490 mL of the removed oil as it offers a better separation between the distributions compared to Feature 2 of phase 1 
and phase 2. 
While results of feature averaging across the three phases are better than results for 
Feature 2 for phase 1 and phase 2 for 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL the removed oil cases, 
results for Feature 2 for phase 3 are better, than results for average feature over three 
phases for most of oil removal cases, except for the case of 120 mL of the removed oil. 
As explained in Section 2, Feature 2 is the magnitude of the fundamental harmonic 
of the supply frequency normalized by the av erage magnitude of the higher harmonics of 
the supply frequency. To investigate the main reasons for the decrease of Feature 2 with 
oil removal (i.e., is this decr ease due to the increase of the magnitudes of the supply fre-
quency higher harmonics or/and due to the in crease of the magnitude of the fundamental 
harmonic of the supply frequency), the aver age magnitude of the fundamental harmonic 
of the supply frequency and the average magnitude of the supply frequency higher har-monics are compared for the data, corresponding to the standard oil level (Day 1), and for 
the data corresponding to the case of 280 mL of the removed oil. Results are plotted in 
Figure 13. 
 
(a) 
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 17 of 30 
 
  
(b) 
Figure 13. (a) Histograms of the average magnitude of  the fundamental harm onic of the supply 
frequency; and ( b) histograms of the average magnitude of  the higher harmonics of the supply fre-
quency. Data are corresponding to the standard oil level for Day1 and to 280 mL of the removed oil 
(20 kg load, phase 1). 
From Figure 13, it could be noticed that, when 280 mL of oil are removed from the 
gearbox, the magnitude of the fundamental harmonic of the supply frequency is de-
creased (Figure 13a) and that the averaged ma gnitude of the higher harmonics of the sup-
ply frequency is increased (Figure 13b). Thus, it could be concluded that the decrease in 
Feature 2 with oil removal is the result of decrease of the magnitude of the fundamental 
harmonic of supply frequency as well as of increase of the magnitude of the higher har-
monics of the supply frequency. 
4.3. Diagnosis Efectiveness Comparision between Technologies 1 and 2 
Based on the performed experimental tests, technologies 1 and 2 have proven to be 
effective in diagnosing a lack of oil lubrication in gearboxes, but with a varying perfor-
mance depending on the amounts of the remove d oil. To obtain a clear understanding of 
which technology offers better diagnostic pe rformance on which amount of the removed 
oil, a comparison between their TPOCDs and th eir FCs in diagnosis of all the considered 
oil removals is performed for signals from the three phases. 
Figures 14 and 15 display respectively a comparison between the TPOCD and the FC 
of technology 1 and technology 2 for data of Day 1 for the standard oil level condition. 
The results show, that, for the case of 120 mL of the removed oil, technology 1 presents a 
higher TPOCD and the FC, than technology 2, for the three phases and when averaging their features across all phases, making tec hnology 1 the most sensitive, when removing 
small amounts of oil. The same behavior is noticed for the case of 260 mL of the removed 
oil, though with comparable TPOCD for technologies 1 and 2 in the case of phase 3 and the phase-averaging feature case. 
Figure 13. (a) Histograms of the average magnitude of the fundamental harmonic of the supply
frequency; and ( b) histograms of the average magnitude of the higher harmonics of the supply
frequency. Data are corresponding to the standard oil level for Day1 and to 280 mL of the removed
oil (20 kg load, phase 1).
From Figure 13, it could be noticed that, when 280 mL of oil are removed from the
gearbox, the magnitude of the fundamental harmonic of the supply frequency is decreased
(Figure 13a) and that the averaged magnitude of the higher harmonics of the supply fre-
quency is increased (Figure 13b). Thus, it could be concluded that the decrease in Feature 2
with oil removal is the result of decrease of the magnitude of the fundamental harmonic of
supply frequency as well as of increase of the magnitude of the higher harmonics of the
supply frequency.
4.3. Diagnosis Efectiveness Comparision between Technologies 1 and 2
Based on the performed experimental tests, technologies 1 and 2 have proven to be
effective in diagnosing a lack of oil lubrication in gearboxes, but with a varying performance
depending on the amounts of the removed oil. To obtain a clear understanding of which
technology offers better diagnostic performance on which amount of the removed oil, a
comparison between their TPOCDs and their FCs in diagnosis of all the considered oil
removals is performed for signals from the three phases.
Figures 14 and 15 display respectively a comparison between the TPOCD and the FC
of technology 1 and technology 2 for data of Day 1 for the standard oil level condition.
The results show, that, for the case of 120 mL of the removed oil, technology 1 presents a
higher TPOCD and the FC, than technology 2, for the three phases and when averaging
their features across all phases, making technology 1 the most sensitive, when removing
small amounts of oil. The same behavior is noticed for the case of 260 mL of the removed
oil, though with comparable TPOCD for technologies 1 and 2 in the case of phase 3 and the
phase-averaging feature case.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 17 of 28
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 18 of 30 
 
  
Figure 14. The TPOCD, provided  by technology 1 and technology 2, respectively, for three phases 
and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level for Day 1. 
 
Figure 15. The FC of Feature 1 and Feature 2 respectively, for three phases and 4 levels of oil removal 
compared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
When the amount of the removed oil reached 280 mL, the TPOCD of technology 1 
still exhibits a high effectiveness. Technology 2 provides a 100% TPOCD for all cases. Technology 2 provides better TPOCD, compared to technology 1, in the case of 490 mL of 
the removed oil; Overall, technology 2 provides better diagnosis results, than technology 100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)859095100
Phase 1
Feature 1
Feature 2
100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)859095100
Phase 2
Feature 1
Feature 2
100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)80859095100
Phase 3
Feature 1
Feature 2
100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)859095100
Average
Feature 1
Feature 2
Figure 14. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 and technology 2, respectively, for three phases
and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level for Day 1.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 18 of 30 
 
  
Figure 14. The TPOCD, provided  by technology 1 and technology 2, respectively, for three phases 
and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level for Day 1. 
 
Figure 15. The FC of Feature 1 and Feature 2 respectively, for three phases and 4 levels of oil removal 
compared to the standard oil level (Day 1). 
When the amount of the removed oil reached 280 mL, the TPOCD of technology 1 
still exhibits a high effectiveness. Technology 2 provides a 100% TPOCD for all cases. Technology 2 provides better TPOCD, compared to technology 1, in the case of 490 mL of 
the removed oil; Overall, technology 2 provides better diagnosis results, than technology 100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)859095100
Phase 1
Feature 1
Feature 2
100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)859095100
Phase 2
Feature 1
Feature 2
100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)80859095100
Phase 3
Feature 1
Feature 2
100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)859095100
Average
Feature 1
Feature 2
Figure 15. The FC of Feature 1 and Feature 2 respectively, for three phases and 4 levels of oil removal
compared to the standard oil level (Day 1).
When the amount of the removed oil reached 280 mL, the TPOCD of technology 1
still exhibits a high effectiveness. Technology 2 provides a 100% TPOCD for all cases.
Technology 2 provides better TPOCD, compared to technology 1, in the case of 490 mL of
the removed oil; Overall, technology 2 provides better diagnosis results, than technology 1,
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 18 of 28
for the case of 490 mL of the removed oil, making technology 2 the most sensitive in the
case of essential oil removal.
A second comparison between technology 1 and technology 2 is performed using
data of Day 2 as a reference for the standard oil level condition. Figures 16 and 17 show a
comparison between the TPOCD and the FC of technologies 1 and 2 with respect to data of
Day 2. Technology 1 provides the TPOCD and the FC higher than technology 2 for 120 mL
of oil removal for three phases and when averaging features over all phases, conﬁrming a
higher sensitivity of technology 1 for diagnosing a small amount of oil removal. In the case
of 260 mL of the removed oil, the FC of technology 2 are higher than those of technology 1,
but none of the features offered a 100% TPOCD, except in the case of technology 1 for
signals from phase 3.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 19 of 30 
 
 1, for the case of 490 mL of the removed oil,  making technology 2 the most sensitive in the 
case of essential oil removal. 
A second comparison between technology 1 and technology 2 is performed using 
data of Day 2 as a reference for the standard oil level condition. Figures 16 and 17 show a 
comparison between the TPOCD and the FC of technologies 1 and 2 with respect to data 
of Day 2. Technology 1 provides the TPOCD an d the FC higher than technology 2 for 120 
mL of oil removal for three phases and when averaging features over all phases, confirm-
ing a higher sensitivity of technology 1 for diagnosing a small amount of oil removal. In the case of 260 mL of the removed oil, the FC of technology 2 are higher than those of 
technology 1, but none of the features offered a 100% TPOCD, except in the case of tech-
nology 1 for signals from phase 3. 
 
Figure 16. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 and te chnology 2, respectively, for three phases 
and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
Figure 16. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 and technology 2, respectively, for three phases
and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 2).
Although the TPOCD of technology 2 is better than of technology 1 when considering
signals from phase 1 and phase 2, technology 1 provides a better TPOCD, than technology 2,
if considering phase 3 and if averaging features across all phases, making diagnosis results
of technology 1 and technology 2 comparable in the case of a 260 mL of the removed oil.
In cases of 280 mL and 490 mL of the removed oil, technology 2 provides higher TPOCD
and higher FC than technology 1 for all cases. While the TPOCD of technology 2 is almost
100%, technology 1 presents a low TPOCD, especially, in the case of 490 mL of the removed
oil, making technology 2 the most sensitive in the case of an essential oil removal.
Altogether, technology 1 provided better diagnosis results for the case of 120 mL of
the removed oil and technology 2 provided better diagnosis results for 280 mL and 490 mL
of the removed oil, with comparable effective diagnosis results for both technologies for
260 mL of the removed oil.
Based on these results, technology 1 is suggested for diagnosis of a reduction in gearbox
oil level in relative oil reduction range (8–16%) and technology 2 is suggested for diagnosis of
reduction in gearbox oil level in relative oil reduction range (16–31%). Relative oil reduction
range (20–30%) is detrimental to the gearbox and requires urgent maintenance intervention.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 19 of 28
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 20 of 30 
 
  
Figure 17. The FC for Feature 1 and Feature 2, respective ly, for three phases and 4 levels of oil re-
moval compared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
Although the TPOCD of technology 2 is bette r than of technology 1 when considering 
signals from phase 1 and phase 2, technology 1 provides a better TPOCD, than technology 
2, if considering phase 3 and if averaging features across all phases, making diagnosis 
results of technology 1 and technology 2 comparable in the case of a 260 mL of the re-
moved oil. In cases of 280 mL and 490 mL of the removed oil, technology 2 provides higher TPOCD and higher FC than technology 1 for all cases. While the TPOCD of technology 2 
is almost 100%, technology 1 presents a low TPOCD, especially, in the case of 490 mL of 
the removed oil, making technology 2 the most sensitive in the case of an essential oil removal. 
Altogether, technology 1 provided better diag nosis results for the case of 120 mL of 
the removed oil and technology 2 provided better diagnosis results for 280 mL and 490 
mL of the removed oil, with comparable effective diagnosis results for both technologies 
for 260 mL of the removed oil. 
Based on these results, technology 1 is suggested for diagnosis of a reduction in gear-
box oil level in relative oil reduction range (8–16%) and technology 2 is suggested for di-
agnosis of reduction in gearbox oil level in relative oil reduction range (16–31%). Relative 
oil reduction range (20–30%) is detrimental to the gearbox and requires urgent mainte-
nance intervention. 
It should be also noticed that technology 2 is less affected by the current grid fluctu-
ations for three phases of current signals. In  fact, while the overall decrease of Feature 1 
for the Day 2 data compared to Day 1 data re ached 15.2%, the overall decrease of Feature 
2 for Day 2 data compared to Day 1 data did not exceed 6%. This could also be deduced 
from the diagnostic results (the TPOCD and the FC) which are, referring to Sections 4.1 and 4.2, more stable between Day 1 and Day 2 for technology 2 compared to technology 
1. 
The difference between dependencies of technologies 1 and 2 on grid fluctuations 
could be explained by the fact, that Feature 2 is normalized while Feature 1 is not normal-
ized. Indeed, the fluctuations of the current grid system are likely to influence the funda-
mental harmonic as well as the higher harmonics of the supply frequency. Thus, the nor-
malization of the fundamental harmonic of the supply frequency by the higher harmonics 100 200 300 400500
The Fisher criterion
The Fisher criterion
The Fisher criterion
The Fisher criterion
Figure 17. The FC for Feature 1 and Feature 2, respectively, for three phases and 4 levels of oil removal
compared to the standard oil level (Day 2).
It should be also noticed that technology 2 is less affected by the current grid ﬂuctua-
tions for three phases of current signals. In fact, while the overall decrease of Feature 1 for
the Day 2 data compared to Day 1 data reached 15.2%, the overall decrease of Feature 2 for
Day 2 data compared to Day 1 data did not exceed 6%. This could also be deduced from
the diagnostic results (the TPOCD and the FC) which are, referring to Sections 4.1 and 4.2,
more stable between Day 1 and Day 2 for technology 2 compared to technology 1.
The difference between dependencies of technologies 1 and 2 on grid ﬂuctuations could
be explained by the fact, that Feature 2 is normalized while Feature 1 is not normalized.
Indeed, the ﬂuctuations of the current grid system are likely to inﬂuence the fundamental
harmonic as well as the higher harmonics of the supply frequency. Thus, the normalization
of the fundamental harmonic of the supply frequency by the higher harmonics of the
supply frequency, adopted for Feature 2, provides less dependency of Feature 2 on current
grid ﬂuctuations, which is not a case for Feature 1, since it is unnormalized and it only
considers the power of the harmonics of the supply frequency. Thus, for an application, in
which current grid is fluctuating (which is usually the case for industrial applications), it is
recommended to use technology 2 as a diagnostic technique for a lack of oil lubrication, rather
than technology 1, to minimize the effect of current grid fluctuations on diagnostic effectiveness.
Another important advantage of the normalization, adopted for Feature 2, compared
to Feature 1, is related to the case of a change in operating load of a conveyor for baggage
handling, that is driven by a gearmotor. Figures 18 and 19 show the average value of
Feature 1 and Feature 2, respectively, for signals related to the standard oil condition and
acquired under 20 kg load and no-load conditions for three phases of current signals.
It can be noticed from Figures 18 and 19, that technology 1 is more affected, than
technology 2, by change in a motor load. It can be seen from Figure 19, that for the three
phases, value of average Feature 2, related to the no-load signals, is almost the same (i.e.,
2–4.5% difference) as value of average Feature 2, related to 20 kg load signals for Day 1
and Day 2. Therefore, a decrease in operating load of a conveyor from 20 kg to no load
will not essentially change Feature 2 and, therefore, will not trigger a false alarm of a lack
of gearbox oil lubrication. This absence of false alarms is due to the normalization of this
feature by the higher harmonics of the supply frequency.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 20 of 28
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 21 of 30 
 
 of the supply frequency, adopted for Feature 2, provides less dependency of Feature 2 on 
current grid fluctuations, which is not a case fo r Feature 1, since it is unnormalized and it 
only considers the power of the harmonics of  the supply frequency. Thus, for an applica-
tion, in which current grid is fluctuating (which is usually the case for industrial applica-
tions), it is recommended to use technology 2 as a diagnostic technique for a lack of oil 
lubrication, rather than technology 1, to minimize the effect of current grid fluctuations 
on diagnostic effectiveness. 
Another important advantage of the normalization, adopted for Feature 2, compared 
to Feature 1, is related to the case of a change in operating load of a conveyor for baggage 
handling, that is driven by a gearmotor. Figures 18 and 19 show the average value of Fea-
ture 1 and Feature 2, respectively, for signals related to the standard oil condition and acquired under 20 kg load and no-load condit ions for three phases of current signals. 
It can be noticed from Figures 18 and 19, that technology 1 is more affected, than 
technology 2, by change in a motor load. It can be seen from Figure 19, that for the three 
phases, value of average Feature 2, related to the no-load signals, is almost the same (i.e., 
2–4.5% difference) as value of average Feature 2, related to 20 kg load signals for Day 1 and Day 2. Therefore, a decrease in operating load of a conveyor from 20 kg to no load 
will not essentially change Feature 2 and, therefore, will not trigger a false alarm of a lack 
of gearbox oil lubrication. This absence of false alarms is due to the normalization of this 
feature by the higher harmonics of the supply frequency. 
In contrast, it can be seen from Figure 18 that the average Feature 1 for the no-load 
signals has lower quantit, than for 20 kg load signals for Day 1 and Day 2. Therefore, a 
decrease in an operating load of a conveyor from 20 kg to no load will lead to a decrease 
of electrical energy, consumed by the motor.  This decrease will decrease Feature 1 and, 
therefore, may trigger a false alarm of a lack of gearbox oil lubrication. 
Therefore, technology 1 could not be effectively used for a gear lack of oil lubrication 
diagnosis in conditions of esse ntial current fluctuations in a grid system and of an essen-
tial variation of a conveyor operating load. For instance, Feature 1 for Day 1 and Day 2 of 
the experiment, which have the same standard level of oil, has different distributions, i.e., Feature 1 of Day 1 has higher values than Feature 1 of Day 2, and based on the approach, 
proposed in this paper, Day 2 should have a lower level of oil in gearbox compared to 
Day 1, which is not the case. 
 
Figure 18. Average of Feature 1 for the three phases for the standard oil level for current signals, 
captured under different load cond itions; Case1: no-load, Case2: 20 kg load (Day1) and Case 3: 20 
kg load (Day2). Case 1 Case 2 Case 311.21.4Phase 1
Case 1 Case 2 Case 311.21.41.6
Phase 2
Case 1 Case 2 Case 31.21.41.6Phase 3
Figure 18. Average of Feature 1 for the three phases for the standard oil level for current signals, captured
under different load conditions; Case1: no-load, Case2: 20 kg load (Day1) and Case 3: 20 kg load (Day2).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 22 of 30 
 
  
Figure 19. Average of Feature 2 for the three phases of the standard oil level for current signals, 
captured under different load cond itions; Case1: no-load, Case2: 20 kg load (Day1) and Case 3: 20 
kg load (Day2). 
5. Conclusions 
1. For the first time in worldwide terms, a method for performing the diagnosis of a 
lack of oil lubrication in gearboxes coupled to induction motors, via motor current 
signature analysis (MCSA) was proposed; 
2. Two new diagnostic technologies for a lack of oil lubrication in gearboxes, based on 
MCSA, were proposed, investigated and experimentally validated; 
3. Comprehensive experimental trials were pe rformed for validation of the proposed 
two technologies. Three-phase motor current data of an AC induction motor driving 
a conveyor belt system (for baggage handling at airports) via a gearbox were rec-
orded, respectively, for the standard oil level in the gearbox and for conditions in 
which specific amounts of oil are removed from the gearbox; 
4. It was proposed that the gearbox oil leve l has an influence on the energy consumed 
by a motor. Thus, the power in a frequency bandwidth around harmonics of the sup-
ply frequency was proposed as diagnostic feature (Feature 1) for technology 1. 
5. The experimental estimates of the probability density functions of Feature 1 values 
for the standard oil level and for the removed oil cases are evaluated and compared 
and the total probabilities of correct diagno sis (TPOCD) and the Fisher criteria (FC), 
based on these estimates, were also eval uated and compared. The study was carried 
out separately for the three phases of moto r current signals and for the case of aver-
aging Feature 1 over the three phases. The results showed that: 
• the power level of the first harmonic of the supply frequency is the most benefi-
cial diagnostic feature as a higher TPOCD and the FC are obtained for this har-monic compared to the third harmonic of the supply frequency; 
• the power of the supply frequency harmonics changes as type of gear friction 
varies in the gearbox. When lower levels of oils are removed, there is still enough oil to lubricate gears via a liquid friction between gear teeth; as a result, a lower 
power is required to circulate oil inside a gearbox and, therefore, Feature 1 value 
decreases. When the solid–solid friction between gear teeth occurs as a result of 
removing more oil, a motor energy consumption starts increasing and Feature 1 
value starts increasing as well; 
Figure 19. Average of Feature 2 for the three phases of the standard oil level for current signals, captured
under different load conditions; Case1: no-load, Case2: 20 kg load (Day1) and Case 3: 20 kg load (Day2).
In contrast, it can be seen from Figure 18 that the average Feature 1 for the no-load
signals has lower quantit, than for 20 kg load signals for Day 1 and Day 2. Therefore, a
decrease in an operating load of a conveyor from 20 kg to no load will lead to a decrease
of electrical energy, consumed by the motor. This decrease will decrease Feature 1 and,
therefore, may trigger a false alarm of a lack of gearbox oil lubrication.
Therefore, technology 1 could not be effectively used for a gear lack of oil lubrication
diagnosis in conditions of essential current ﬂuctuations in a grid system and of an essential
variation of a conveyor operating load. For instance, Feature 1 for Day 1 and Day 2 of
the experiment, which have the same standard level of oil, has different distributions, i.e.,
Feature 1 of Day 1 has higher values than Feature 1 of Day 2, and based on the approach,
proposed in this paper, Day 2 should have a lower level of oil in gearbox compared to
Day 1, which is not the case.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 21 of 28
5. Conclusions
1. For the ﬁrst time in worldwide terms, a method for performing the diagnosis of a
lack of oil lubrication in gearboxes coupled to induction motors, via motor current
signature analysis (MCSA) was proposed;
2. Two new diagnostic technologies for a lack of oil lubrication in gearboxes, based on
MCSA, were proposed, investigated and experimentally validated;
3. Comprehensive experimental trials were performed for validation of the proposed
two technologies. Three-phase motor current data of an AC induction motor driving a
conveyor belt system (for baggage handling at airports) via a gearbox were recorded,
respectively, for the standard oil level in the gearbox and for conditions in which
speciﬁc amounts of oil are removed from the gearbox;
4. It was proposed that the gearbox oil level has an inﬂuence on the energy consumed by
a motor. Thus, the power in a frequency bandwidth around harmonics of the supply
frequency was proposed as diagnostic feature (Feature 1) for technology 1.
5. The experimental estimates of the probability density functions of Feature 1 values for
the standard oil level and for the removed oil cases are evaluated and compared and
the total probabilities of correct diagnosis (TPOCD) and the Fisher criteria (FC), based
on these estimates, were also evaluated and compared. The study was carried out
separately for the three phases of motor current signals and for the case of averaging
Feature 1 over the three phases. The results showed that:
 the power level of the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency is the most beneﬁcial
diagnostic feature as a higher TPOCD and the FC are obtained for this harmonic
compared to the third harmonic of the supply frequency;
 the power of the supply frequency harmonics changes as type of gear friction
varies in the gearbox. When lower levels of oils are removed, there is still enough
oil to lubricate gears via a liquid friction between gear teeth; as a result, a lower
power is required to circulate oil inside a gearbox and, therefore, Feature 1 value
decreases. When the solid–solid friction between gear teeth occurs as a result of
removing more oil, a motor energy consumption starts increasing and Feature 1
value starts increasing as well;
 technology 1 was shown to be sensitive/effective to the following oil removals: 120 mL
(i.e., relative oil reduction is 8%) and 260 mL (i.e., relative oil reduction is 16%);
 while using datasets corresponding to different days of experimental trials and
different conveyor loads with a standard oil level, Feature 1 was shown to be
affected by current ﬂuctuations of the grid system and conveyor load variations.
 it was shown that technology 1 could provide essentially different TPOCDs
of a lack of gearbox oil lubrication for different current phases; therefore, it is
recommended to employ three phases for diagnosis by technology 1;
 Feature 1, averaged over the three phases, was proposed as a useful diagnostic
feature, since it provides effective results even if one of the phases does not
provide a sufﬁcient level of diagnosis effectiveness.
6. It was proposed, for the ﬁrst time in worldwide terms, that te non-linearity of the mo-
tor current changes due to a reduction of oil levels in gearboxes. Therefore, technology
2 was proposed, based on diagnostic Feature 2, for the diagnosis of a lack of gearbox
oil lubrication. Feature 2 employs spectral magnitude of the fundamental harmonic
of the supply frequency, normalized by the average value of the spectral magnitudes
of higher harmonics of the supply frequency in the spectrum of the current signal and
characterizes non-linearity of the motor current.
7. The experimental estimates of the probability density functions of Feature 2 values for
the standard oil level and for the removed oil cases were evaluated and compared and
the TPOCDs and the FCs, based on these estimates, were also evaluated and compared.
The study was carried out separately for the three phases of motor current signals and for
the case of averaging Feature 2 over the three phases. The results showed that:
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 22 of 28
 non-linearity of the motor current increases with increase of an amount of the
removed oil;
 technology 2 was shown to be sensitive/effective to the following oil removals:
260 mL (i.e., relative oil reduction is 16%), 280 mL (i.e., relative oil reduction
is 18%) and 490 mL (i.e., relative oil reduction is 31%).
 while using datasets corresponding to different days of experimental trials and to
different conveyor loads with standard oil levels, Feature 2 was shown to be almost
unaffected by current fluctuations of the grid system and conveyor load variations.
 it was shown that technology 2 could provide essentially different TPOCDs
of a lack of gearbox oil lubrication for different current phases; therefore, it is
recommended to employ three phases for diagnosis by technology 2.
 Feature 2, averaged over the three phases, was proposed as a useful diagnostic
feature, since it provided effective results even if one of the phases does not
provide a sufﬁcient level of diagnosis effectiveness.
 It was shown that the increase in non-linearity of the motor current signals
due to increase of oil removal results from both increase the magnitudes of the
higher harmonics of the supply frequency and decrease of the magnitude of the
fundamental harmonic of the supply frequency due to increase of oil removal.
8. Novel comparisons are made between the two proposed technologies. The following
statements were concluded:
 diagnostic Feature 1 of technology 1 is more affected by current ﬂuctuations in a
grid system and by variation of gearbox operating load compared to Feature 2
of technology 2, because Feature 1 is unnormalized. Therefore, technology 1
is recommended for use in conditions of no- to low-current ﬂuctuations of a
grid system and of no- to low-variations of a gearbox load to ensure a reliable
diagnosis and to avoid false alarms;
 diagnostic Feature 2 is less affected by current ﬂuctuations in a grid system and by
variation of gearbox operating load compared to Feature 1, because Feature 2 is
normalized. Therefore, technology 2 is recommended to use in conditions of medium
to high current fluctuations of a grid system and of medium to high variations of a
gearbox load to ensure a reliable diagnosis and to avoid false alarms;
 technology 1 has shown its ability for diagnosing a lack of gear oil lubrication
with more sensitivity to training data, compared to technology 2.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, L.G.; methodology, L.G., M.H.F. and A.B.; software,
M.H.F.; validation, L.G., M.H.F., G.C. and W.K.; investigation, L.G., M.H.F. and A.B resources, G.C.
and W.K.; data curation, M.H.F.; writing—original draft preparation, M.H.F.; writing—review and
editing L.G. and A.B. visualization, M.H.F.; supervision, L.G. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by Innovate UK, grant number 105538.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: The authors acknowledge with thanks a ﬁnancial support of Innovate UK,
project number 35195, a help of A. Legg, a help of A. Moshrefzadeh in performing experimental trails
for technology validation, feature 1 algorithm development/effectiveness estimation, a help of P .
Eaton (Levertech Engineering Services Ltd., UK) and his colleagues J. Fogg, S. Fields, R. Peatman and
G. Fenton in performing experimental trials for technology validation, a help of I. Steer (Siemens, UK)
in performing experimental trials for technology validation and a help of M. Gargett, G. Grant, D.
Zhao, A. Abdullahi and B. Jamabo (all from University of Huddersﬁeld) in performing experimental
trials for technology validation.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 23 of 28
Appendix A
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW  24 of 30 
 
 • diagnostic Feature 2 is less affected by current fluctuations in a grid system and 
by variation of gearbox operating load compared to Feature 1, because Feature 
2 is normalized. Therefore, technology 2 is recommended to use in conditions of 
medium to high current fluctuations of a grid system and of medium to high 
variations of a gearbox load to ensure a reliable diagnosis and to avoid false 
alarms ; 
• technology 1 has shown its ability for diagnosing a lack of gear oil lubrication 
with more sensitivity to tra ining data, compared to technology 2.  
Author Contribution s: Conceptualization, L.G.; methodology, L.G., M.H.F.  and A.B.; software, 
M.H.F.; validation, L.G., M.H.F ., G.C. and W.K.; investigation, L.G., M.H.F.  and A.B resources, G.C. 
and W.K.; data curation, M.H.F.; writing —original draft preparation, M.H.F.; writing —review and 
editing L.G.  and A.B. visualization, M.H.F.; supervision, L.G. All authors have read and agreed to 
the published version of the manuscript.  
Funding:  This research was funded by Innovate UK, grant number 105538 . 
Institutional Review Board Statement:  Not applicable.  
Informed Consent Statement:  Not applicable.   
Acknowledgments : The authors acknowledge with thanks a financial support of Innovate UK, pro-
ject number 35195, a help of A. Legg, a help of A. Moshrefzadeh in performing experimental trails 
for technology validation, feature 1 algorithm development/effectiveness estimation, a help of P. 
Eaton (Levertech Engineering Services Ltd ., UK) and his colleagues J. Fo gg, S. Fields, R. Peatman 
and G. Fenton in performing experimental trials for technology validation, a help of I. Steer (Sie-
mens, UK) in performing experimental trials for technology validation and a help of M. Gargett, G. 
Grant, D. Zhao, A. Abdullahi and B. Jamabo (all from University of Huddersfield) in performing 
experimental trials for technology validation.  
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.  
Appendix  A 
 
Figure A1. Histograms of Feature 1 (the first harmonic of the supp ly frequency) for phase 1 of the 
current signals, comparing the standard oil level (Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of 
removed oil cases.  
Figure A1. Histograms of Feature 1 (the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency) for phase 1 of the
current signals, comparing the standard oil level (Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of
removed oil cases.
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 25 of 30 
 
  
Figure A2. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the fi rst harmonic of the supply frequency) for 
3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal comp ared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
 
Figure A3. The FC of Feature 1 (the first harmonic of th e supply frequency) for 3 phases and 4 levels 
of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)5060708090100
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Average
The Fisher criterion
Figure A2. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency) for
3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 2).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 24 of 28
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 25 of 30 
 
  
Figure A2. The TPOCD, provided by technology 1 (the fi rst harmonic of the supply frequency) for 
3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal comp ared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
 
Figure A3. The FC of Feature 1 (the first harmonic of th e supply frequency) for 3 phases and 4 levels 
of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 2). 100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)5060708090100
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Average
The Fisher criterion
Figure A3. The FC of Feature 1 (the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency) for 3 phases and 4 levels
of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 2).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW  26 of 30 
 
  
Figure A4. Histograms of Feature 1 (the first harmonic of the supply frequency) for phase 1 of the 
current signals, comparing the standard oil level (Day1  + Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 
mL of removed oil cases.  
 
Figure A5. The TPOCD provided by technology 1 (the first harmonic of the supply frequency) for 3 
phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1  + Day 2).  
Figure A4. Histograms of Feature 1 (the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency) for phase 1 of the
current signals, comparing the standard oil level (Day1 + Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and
490 mL of removed oil cases.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 25 of 28
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 26 of 30 
 
  
Figure A4. Histograms of Feature 1 (the first harmonic of the supply frequency) for phase 1 of the 
current signals, comparing the st andard oil level (Day1 + Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 
mL of removed oil cases. 
 
Figure A5. The TPOCD provided by techno logy 1 (the first harmonic of  the supply frequency) for 3 
phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1 + Day 2). 
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
100 200 300 400 500
Removed oil (ml)707580859095100
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Average
Figure A5. The TPOCD provided by technology 1 (the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency) for
3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1 + Day 2).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 27 of 30 
 
  
Figure A6. The FC of Feature 1 (the first harmonic of th e supply frequency) for 3 phases and 4 levels 
of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1 + Day 2). 
 
Figure A7. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil 
level (Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of removed oil cases. 
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Relative frequency (%)
Feature number
Figure A6. The FC of Feature 1 (the ﬁrst harmonic of the supply frequency) for 3 phases and 4 levels
of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1 + Day 2).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW  27 of 30 
 
  
Figure A6. The FC of Feature 1 (the first harmonic of the supply frequency) for 3 phases an d 4 levels 
of oil removal compared to the standard oil level (Day 1  + Day 2).  
 
Figure A7. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil 
level (Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of removed oil cases.  
Figure A7. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil
level (Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of removed oil cases.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 26 of 28
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 28 of 30 
 
  
Figure A8. The TPOCD, provided by techno logy 2, for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared 
to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
 
Figure A9. The FC of Feature 2 for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil 
level (Day 2). 
 
Figure A10. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil 
level (Day 1 + Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of removed oil cases. 
The Fisher criterion
Figure A8. The TPOCD, provided by technology 2, for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared
to the standard oil level (Day 2).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 28 of 30 
 
  
Figure A8. The TPOCD, provided by techno logy 2, for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared 
to the standard oil level (Day 2). 
 
Figure A9. The FC of Feature 2 for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil 
level (Day 2). 
 
Figure A10. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil 
level (Day 1 + Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of removed oil cases. 
The Fisher criterion
Figure A9. The FC of Feature 2 for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil
level (Day 2).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW  28 of 30 
 
  
Figure A8. The TPOCD, provided by technology 2, for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared 
to the standard oil level (Day 2).  
 
Figure A9. The FC of Feature 2 for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil 
level (Day 2).  
 
Figure A10. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil 
level (Day 1 + Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of removed oil cases.  
Figure A10. Histograms of Feature 2 for phase 1 of the current signals, comparing the standard oil
level (Day 1 + Day 2) to 120 mL, 260 mL, 280 mL and 490 mL of removed oil cases.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 27 of 28
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 29 of 30 
 
  
Figure A11. The TPOCD, provided by technology 2, for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal com-
pared to the standard oil level (Day 1 + Day2). 
 
Figure A12. The FC of Feature 2 for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard 
oil level (Day 1 + Day2). 
References 
1. Pérez,  A.T.;  Hadfield,  M. Low-cost  oil quality  sensor  based  on changes  in complex  permittivity.  Sensors 2011 , 11, 10675–10690. 
2. Sun,  J.; Wang,  L.; Li, J.; Li, F.; Li, J.; Lu, H. Online  oil debris  monitoring  of rotating  machinery:  A detailed  review  of more  than  
three  decades.  Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2021 , 149, 107341. 
3. Ismon,  M.B.;  Zaman,  I.B.; Ghazali,  M.I. Condition  monitoring  of variable  speed  worm  gearbox  lubricated  with  different  viscos-
ity oils. In Applied Mechanics and Materials ; Trans  Tech  Publications  Ltd.:  Wollerau,  Switzerland,  2015;  Volume  773, pp. 178–182. 
4. Coronado,  D.; Kupferschmidt,  C. Assessment  and Validation  of Oil Sensor  Systems  for On-Line  Oil Condition  Monitoring  of 
Wind  Turbine  Gearboxes.  Procedia Technol. 2014 , 15, 747–754. 
5. Toliyat,  H.A.;  Al-Nuaim,  N.A.  Simulation  and detection  of dynamic  air-gap  eccentricity  in salient-pole  synchronous  machines.  
IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 1999 , 35, 86–93. 
6. Salah,  M.; Bacha,  K.; Chaari,  A. An improved  spectral  analysis  of the stray  flux component  for the detection  of air-gap  irregu-
larities  in squirrel  cage  motors.  ISA Trans. 2014 , 53, 816–826. 
7. Park,  Y.; Choi,  H.; Lee, S.B.;  ; Gyftakis,  K.N.  Search  coil-based  detection  of nonadjacent  rotor  bar damage  in squirrel  cage  induc-
tion motors.  IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2020 , 56, 4748–4757. 
8. Zouzou,  S.E.;  Sahraoui,  M.; Ghoggal,  A.; Guedidi,  S. Detection  of inter-turn  short-circuit  and broken  rotor  bars in induction  
motors  using  the partial  relative  indexes:  application  on the MCSA.  IEEE.  In Proceedings  of the XIX International  Conference  
on Electrical  Machines-ICEM,  Rome,  Italy,  6–8 September  2010;  pp. 1–6. 
9. Ishikawa,  T.; Shinagawa,  S.; Kurita,  N. Analysis  and failure  diagnosis  of squirrel-cage  induction  motor  with  broken  rotor  bars 
and end rings.  IEEJ J. Ind. Appl. 2013 , 2, 292–297. 
10. Khechekhouche,  A.; Cherif,  H.; Benakcha,  A.; Menacer,  A.; Chehaidia,  S.E.;  Panchal,  H. Experimental  diagnosis  of inter-turns  
stator  fault  and unbalanced  voltage  supply  in induction  motor  using  MCSA  and DWER.  Period. Eng. Nat. Sci. 2020 , 8, 1202–
1216. 
The total probability of correct diagnosis (%)
 The Fisher criterion
Figure A11. The TPOCD, provided by technology 2, for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared
to the standard oil level (Day 1 + Day2).
Sensors 2022 , 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 29 of 30 
 
  
Figure A11. The TPOCD, provided by technology 2, for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal com-
pared to the standard oil level (Day 1 + Day2). 
 
Figure A12. The FC of Feature 2 for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard 
oil level (Day 1 + Day2). 
References 
1. Pérez,  A.T.;  Hadfield,  M. Low-cost  oil quality  sensor  based  on changes  in complex  permittivity.  Sensors 2011 , 11, 10675–10690. 
2. Sun,  J.; Wang,  L.; Li, J.; Li, F.; Li, J.; Lu, H. Online  oil debris  monitoring  of rotating  machinery:  A detailed  review  of more  than  
three  decades.  Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2021 , 149, 107341. 
3. Ismon,  M.B.;  Zaman,  I.B.; Ghazali,  M.I. Condition  monitoring  of variable  speed  worm  gearbox  lubricated  with  different  viscos-
ity oils. In Applied Mechanics and Materials ; Trans  Tech  Publications  Ltd.:  Wollerau,  Switzerland,  2015;  Volume  773, pp. 178–182. 
4. Coronado,  D.; Kupferschmidt,  C. Assessment  and Validation  of Oil Sensor  Systems  for On-Line  Oil Condition  Monitoring  of 
Wind  Turbine  Gearboxes.  Procedia Technol. 2014 , 15, 747–754. 
5. Toliyat,  H.A.;  Al-Nuaim,  N.A.  Simulation  and detection  of dynamic  air-gap  eccentricity  in salient-pole  synchronous  machines.  
IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 1999 , 35, 86–93. 
6. Salah,  M.; Bacha,  K.; Chaari,  A. An improved  spectral  analysis  of the stray  flux component  for the detection  of air-gap  irregu-
larities  in squirrel  cage  motors.  ISA Trans. 2014 , 53, 816–826. 
7. Park,  Y.; Choi,  H.; Lee, S.B.;  ; Gyftakis,  K.N.  Search  coil-based  detection  of nonadjacent  rotor  bar damage  in squirrel  cage  induc-
tion motors.  IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2020 , 56, 4748–4757. 
8. Zouzou,  S.E.;  Sahraoui,  M.; Ghoggal,  A.; Guedidi,  S. Detection  of inter-turn  short-circuit  and broken  rotor  bars in induction  
motors  using  the partial  relative  indexes:  application  on the MCSA.  IEEE.  In Proceedings  of the XIX International  Conference  
on Electrical  Machines-ICEM,  Rome,  Italy,  6–8 September  2010;  pp. 1–6. 
9. Ishikawa,  T.; Shinagawa,  S.; Kurita,  N. Analysis  and failure  diagnosis  of squirrel-cage  induction  motor  with  broken  rotor  bars 
and end rings.  IEEJ J. Ind. Appl. 2013 , 2, 292–297. 
10. Khechekhouche,  A.; Cherif,  H.; Benakcha,  A.; Menacer,  A.; Chehaidia,  S.E.;  Panchal,  H. Experimental  diagnosis  of inter-turns  
stator  fault  and unbalanced  voltage  supply  in induction  motor  using  MCSA  and DWER.  Period. Eng. Nat. Sci. 2020 , 8, 1202–
1216. 
The total probability of correct diagnosis (%)
 The Fisher criterion
Figure A12. The FC of Feature 2 for 3 phases and 4 levels of oil removal compared to the standard oil
level (Day 1 + Day2).
References
1. Pérez, A.T.; Hadﬁeld, M. Low-cost oil quality sensor based on changes in complex permittivity. Sensors 2011 ,11, 10675–10690.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
2. Sun, J.; Wang, L.; Li, J.; Li, F.; Li, J.; Lu, H. Online oil debris monitoring of rotating machinery: A detailed review of more than
three decades. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2021 ,149, 107341. [CrossRef]
3. Ismon, M.B.; Zaman, I.B.; Ghazali, M.I. Condition monitoring of variable speed worm gearbox lubricated with different viscosity
oils. In Applied Mechanics and Materials ; Trans Tech Publications Ltd.: Wollerau, Switzerland, 2015; Volume 773, pp. 178–182.
4. Coronado, D.; Kupferschmidt, C. Assessment and Validation of Oil Sensor Systems for On-Line Oil Condition Monitoring of
Wind Turbine Gearboxes. Procedia Technol. 2014 ,15, 747–754. [CrossRef]
5. Toliyat, H.A.; Al-Nuaim, N.A. Simulation and detection of dynamic air-gap eccentricity in salient-pole synchronous machines.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 1999 ,35, 86–93. [CrossRef]
6. Salah, M.; Bacha, K.; Chaari, A. An improved spectral analysis of the stray ﬂux component for the detection of air-gap irregularities
in squirrel cage motors. ISA Trans. 2014 ,53, 816–826. [CrossRef]
7. Park, Y.; Choi, H.; Lee, S.B.; Gyftakis, K.N. Search coil-based detection of nonadjacent rotor bar damage in squirrel cage induction
motors. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2020 ,56, 4748–4757. [CrossRef]
8. Zouzou, S.E.; Sahraoui, M.; Ghoggal, A.; Guedidi, S. Detection of inter-turn short-circuit and broken rotor bars in induction
motors using the partial relative indexes: Application on the MCSA. In Proceedings of the XIX International Conference on
Electrical Machines-ICEM, Rome, Italy, 6–8 September 2010; pp. 1–6.
9. Ishikawa, T.; Shinagawa, S.; Kurita, N. Analysis and failure diagnosis of squirrel-cage induction motor with broken rotor bars
and end rings. IEEJ J. Ind. Appl. 2013 ,2, 292–297. [CrossRef]
10. Khechekhouche, A.; Cherif, H.; Benakcha, A.; Menacer, A.; Chehaidia, S.E.; Panchal, H. Experimental diagnosis of inter-turns
stator fault and unbalanced voltage supply in induction motor using MCSA and DWER. Period. Eng. Nat. Sci. 2020 ,8, 1202–1216.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Sensors 2022 ,22, 9507 28 of 28
11. Shifat, T.A.; Hur, J.W. An effective stator fault diagnosis framework of BLDC motor based on vibration and current signals. IEEE
Access. 2020 ,8, 106968–106981. [CrossRef]
12. Thomson, W.T. On-line MCSA to diagnose shorted turns in low voltage stator windings of 3-phase induction motors prior to
failure. In Proceedings of the IEMDC 2001. IEEE International Electric Machines and Drives Conference, Cambridge, MA, USA,
17–20 June 2001; pp. 891–898.
13. Joksimovic, G.M.; Penman, J. The detection of inter-turn short circuits in the stator windings of operating motors. IEEE Trans. Ind.
Electron. 2000 ,47, 1078–1084. [CrossRef]
14. Li, X.; Wu, Q.; Nandi, S. Performance analysis of a three-phase induction machine with inclined static eccentricity. IEEE Trans.
Ind. Appl. 2007 ,43, 531–541. [CrossRef]
15. Merizalde, Y.; Hern ández-Callejo, L.; Duque-Perez, O. State of the art and trends in the monitoring, detection and diagnosis of
failures in electric induction motors. Energies 2017 ,10, 1056. [CrossRef]
16. Miljkovi´ c, D. Brief review of motor current signature analysis. HDKBR Info Mag. 2015 ,5, 14–26.
17. Cardoso, A.M.; Saraiva, E. On-line condition monitoring of kinetic-electronic systems. In Proceedings of the Electrotechnical
Conference Integrating Research, Industry and Education in Energy and Communication Engineering, Lisbon, Portugal, 11–13
April 1989.
18. Gyftakis, K.N.; Cardoso, A.J.M.; Antonino-Daviu, J.A. Introducing the Filtered Park’s and Filtered Extended Park’s Vector
Approach to detect broken rotor bars in induction motors independently from the rotor slots number. Mech. Syst. Signal Process.
2017 ,93, 30–50. [CrossRef]
19. Kliman, G.; Stein, J. Methods of motor current signature analysis. Electr. Mach. Power Syst. 1992 ,20, 463–474. [CrossRef]
20. Schoen, R.; Habetler, T.; Kamran, F.; Bartﬁeld, R. Motor bearing damage detection using stator current monitoring. IEEE Trans.
Ind. Appl. 1995 ,31, 1274–1279. [CrossRef]
21. Ciszewski, T.; Gelman, L.; Ball, A. Novel fault identiﬁcation for electromechanical systems via spectral technique and electrical
data processing. Electronics 2020 ,9, 1560. [CrossRef]
22. Ciszewski, T.; Gelman, L.; Sw˛ edrowski, L. Current-based higher-order spectral covariance as a bearing diagnostic feature for
induction motors. Int. J. Insight-Non-Destr. Test. Cond. Monit. 2016 ,58, 431–434. [CrossRef]
23. Pires, V .F.; Kadivonga, M.; Martins, J.; Pires, A. Motor square current signature analysis for induction motor rotor diagnosis.
Measurement 2013 ,46, 942–948. [CrossRef]
24. Cruz, S.M.; Cardoso, A.M. Stator winding fault diagnosis in three-phase synchronous and asynchronous motors, by the extended
Park’s vector approach. IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 2001 ,37, 1227–1233. [CrossRef]
25. Sahraoui, M.; Ghoggal, A.; Guedidi, S.; Zouzou, S.E. Detection of inter-turn short-circuit in induction motors using Park–Hilbert
method. Int. J. Syst. Assur. Eng. Manag. 2014 ,5, 337–351. [CrossRef]
26. Allal, A.; Chetate, B. A new and best approach for early detection of rotor and stator faults in induction motors coupled to
variable loads. Front. Energy 2016 ,10, 176–191. [CrossRef]
27. Lee, C.-Y.; Tsen, I. Oil level prediction of wind power gearbox based on current analysis. Sens. Lett. 2012 ,10, 1094–1098. [CrossRef]
28. Van Vuuren, P .A.; Xu, Y.; Gu, F.; Ball, A.D. Monitoring gearbox oil viscosity by means of motor current signal analysis. Int. J. Cond.
Monit. 2018 ,8, 30–35. [CrossRef]
29. Gelman, L.; Ottley, M. New processing techniques for transient signals with non-linear variation of the instantaneous frequency
in time. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2006 ,20, 1254–1262. [CrossRef]
30. Gelman, L.; Petrunin, I. The new multidimensional time/multi-frequency transform for higher order spectral analysis. Int. J.
Multidimens. Syst. Signal Process. 2007 ,18, 317–325. [CrossRef]
31. Combet, F.; Gelman, L. An automated methodology for performing time synchronous averaging of a gearbox signal without
speed sensor. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2007 ,21, 2590–2606. [CrossRef]
32. Gelman, L.; Murray, B.; Patel, T.H.; Thomson, A. Novel decision-making technique for damage diagnosis. Int. J. Insight-Non-Destr.
Test. Cond. Monit. 2013 ,55, 428–432. [CrossRef]
33. Gelman, L.; Petrunin, I. Novel anomaly detection technique based on the nearest neighbour and sequential methods. Int. J.
Insight-Non-Destr. Test. Cond. Monit. 2012 ,54, 433–435. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
