energies
Article
Analysis of the Gearbox Oil Maintenance Procedures in Wind
Energy II
JoséRamón del Álamo Salgado1,*, Mario J. Dur án Mart ínez2, Francisco J. Muñoz Guti érrez2
and Jorge Alarcon3
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Citation: Salgado, J.R.d.Á.; Martínez,
M.J.D.; Gutiérrez, F.J.M.; Alarcon, J.
Analysis of the Gearbox Oil
Maintenance Procedures in Wind
Energy II. Energies 2021 ,14, 3572.
https://doi.org/10.3390/en14123572
Academic Editor: Alvaro Luna
Received: 7 May 2021
Accepted: 8 June 2021
Published: 16 June 2021
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).1Eolia Renovables, 29010 M álaga, Spain
2Department of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering, University of Malaga, 29016 M álaga, Spain;
mjduran@uma.es (M.J.D.M.); fjmg@uma.es (F.J.M.G.)
3Bureau Veritas—Oil Condition Monitoring, Houston, TX 77477, USA; Jorge.alarcon@bureauveritas.com
*Correspondence: jrdelalamo@hotmail.com
Abstract: Recent works have addressed the analysis of some situations that alter the gearbox oil
results in wind energy conversion systems (WECS). This work contributes by completing the analysis
of additional situations, based on key operational data collected from 10 different multi-megawatt
wind turbines at two different locations with two top-tier technologies, and has demonstrated that
the oil analysis results can be altered in practice. As important as detecting these situations is to
verify how the data collected by the different operators and transferred to the laboratories, this
relevant information is not included in most cases. The issues that can stem from this lack of valuable
data can be mitigated with a new and more complete template. This paper proposes a detailed
template that is ready for an industrial use and contributes to standardizing the information handled
by all actors. The suggested template, which is designed based on extensive experimental results
and an in-depth analysis, provides detailed information for laboratories to improve conclusions,
recommendations and action plans. The investigation provides a high archival value for researchers
whose investigation deals with gearbox oil maintenance. Furthermore, the global impact of the
proposal on the wind industry can be very relevant in terms of beneﬁts and it will ultimately be an
advance in the evolution of the operation and maintenance of wind farms.
Keywords: scheduled maintenance; predictive maintenance; wind energy; wind turbine gearbox; oil
analysis; prognosis
1. Introduction
Along with the steady increase of the installed power and the development of new
multi-MW wind energy systems, the improvements in term of reliability have been a key
feature for the success of this renewable energy [ 1]. In this context, in the wind energy
industry predictive maintenance has its main impact in the areas of productivity and
competitiveness [ 2]. Most wind turbines are equipped with a gearbox, that contributes with
well-known beneﬁts, but also adds a new potential source of eventual failure. Thereby, it
becomes of paramount importance to establish a clear and effective maintenance procedure
to minimize unscheduled shutdowns of the wind turbine [3].
Speciﬁcally, the correct diagnosis of the oil gearbox is nowadays even more relevant in
order to extend the useful life of the oil. The usual practice years ago was to simply change
the oil periodically. This period, which depended on the maintainer and the type of oil,
ranged regularly from two to ﬁve years. In recent years, these routines have been modiﬁed
and the oil is now used until the results of the analytics reveal an important degradation or
the oil is discarded for another reason, such as gearbox replacement.
The analysis of the oil in the laboratories is executed in an extremely neat and clean
environment, hence the probability of contamination once the sample is in this atmosphere
is minimal. However, the situation at the beginning of the process, that is, at the wind
turbine, or even substations or warehouses, is different. It is at this stage when the risk
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572. https://doi.org/10.3390/en14123572 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 2 of 18
of oil sample contamination is higher. It is determinant that impurities do not enter the
sample bottle before, during or after an oil sample is taken. If any impurities are present
in the sample, it will alter the results, which in some cases will be detected as erroneous
and rejected, but in other cases will be accepted as a “false positive”. This process must be
very scrupulous and, for this reason, some implemented protocols include actions such as:
(i) the bottle must only be opened at the exact moment of the sample being taken for the
minimum period of time that is strictly necessary, (ii) the surrounding area of the sample
valve must be as clean as possible, (iii) the amount of oil equal to a particular volume
indicated by maintainers and laboratories must be discarded, or (iv) the oil samples should
be sent to laboratories after the sample is collected within a certain period of time stipulated
by maintainers and laboratories.
In recent years, an improvement in the properties and reliability of the oil has extended
degradation times and has contributed to a better adaptation to the speciﬁc conditions
of wind turbine gearboxes [ 4]. Additionally, the advances in laboratories bring better
and more reliable results. Even the knowledge of the oil analytics of gearboxes and
the common errors have been reﬁned. Much of the relevant information comes directly
from the companies or laboratories involved in this sector rather than from scientiﬁc and
specialized publications, therefore an important current state of art of some of the most
important companies in the industry has been analysed in Section 2 [1].
Nevertheless, the communication between the wind farm (sampling) and the labo-
ratory still has deﬁciencies with important implications. In the analysis of the gearbox
oil parameters not only the trends are important, but also the relationship between those
parameters. This “gap” in communication affects the interpretation of the results and
their conclusions, triggering generic or simply wrong conclusions that can have severe
consequences. This lack of information of relevant events transmitted to the laboratory
sometimes implicates generic recommendations that may contain various options, be
erroneous or not identify speciﬁc severe issues [5].
Despite the fact that the troubleshooting techniques have improved in the wind energy
sector in general [ 6] and for gearboxes in particular [ 7] (avoiding a relevant percentage of
substitution and reducing costs of the handling), the substitution of a gearbox is one the
most expensive tasks in the wind energy industry. Therefore, any and all information that
can help to make a decision in advance, is crucial and has a signiﬁcant economic impact [ 8].
Furthermore, offshore installed power is increasing year after year [ 9] and the general
tendency of the wind turbine sizes is to grow [ 10]. In offshore wind energy, the atmospheric
conditions that may be present, with factors such as high winds and the seawaves [ 11],
complicate the work and the crane cost multiplies compared to onshore wind energy [ 12],
so predictive maintenance is even more important [13].
Recent works [ 14] have covered general aspects of different issues related to the wind
energy industry and its maintenance procedures, including: (i) the signiﬁcant growth of the
wind industry in recent years [ 1] and the current and future growth trends, (ii) maintenance
evolution [ 2], with the emergence of new tools and spare parts and wider knowledge of
assets or (iii) the speciﬁc circumstances that hinder the operation and maintenance of a
wind farm [ 15], including the particular features of the wind turbines. More speciﬁcally,
it is also examined in [ 14] the gearbox of a wind turbine [ 16], its maintenance (predictive,
preventive and corrective) [ 2,17] with different techniques that are used to analyse the
different issues [18], and the difﬁculties of collecting and analysing the data [19,20].
Although [ 14] pointed at some speciﬁc problems in the actual maintenance of wind
energy system gearboxes, it mainly focused on the identiﬁcation of failure sources [ 21,22].
From an analytical perspective, it highlighted how the lack of proper information can
signiﬁcantly alter the system reliability.
Based on the grounds that were set in [14], this work further expands and completes
the previous analysis with an in-depth study that includes:
(i)Detailed information about the information that is received by laboratories from
different parties in the wind energy industry (Section 2). This data is not present in
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 3 of 18
literature, but it is a key issue to conﬁrm that the current information at industry is
scarce and incomplete in most cases.
(ii)The speciﬁc situations which are part of the daily routines within the operation and
maintenance of a wind farm and which can modify the conclusions of the oil analysis
results of the gearboxes. At this point the information from [ 14] is gathered, brieﬂy
summarized and completed with the analysis of the air ﬁlter substitution ( Section 3.1 ).
(iii)The analysis of the values prior to damage (i.e., the anticipated knowledge of an
incident [ 23]), including previous trends to identify possible behaviour patterns, in
order to tackle the problem in its earliest stages (Sections 3.2 and 4). Different case
studies are presented and discussed to exemplify how correct information from main-
tenance staff could eventually lead to prognosis and help the predictive maintenance.
By reversing the ﬂow of information, in such a way that operational information
supports oil analytics to be part of the information used to make other decisions,
generating an integral process.
(iv)The proposal of a sample template that mitigates the lack of information already
conﬁrmed in point (i) (Section 2), avoids the erroneous conclusions analysed in
(ii) (Section 3) and eventually helps the prognosis with proper information of the
parameter trends discussed in (iii) (Section 4). Therefore, the suggested template is
the ﬁnal result of the in-depth analyses detailed in [ 14] and Sections 3–5 of this paper.
It is expected to provide both a high archival value in the scientiﬁc community and a
practical contribution for practitioners in the ﬁeld.
The paper is structured as follows: Section 2 analyses the state of art in different
companies [ 24] and laboratories [ 25], thoroughly examining the information sent from
the operator to the laboratory and the type of laboratory conclusions. Section 3 ﬁrstly
reviews the effect of the substitution of the air ﬁlter on the results of the analysis [ 26],
and secondly analyses the importance of the anticipated knowledge of an incident [ 27].
Section 4 provides experimental results from 10 wind turbines at two different locations
with different technologies to analyse and discuss real situations where results can be
altered. In Section 5 a proposal for a template to be sent from the wind farm to the
laboratory is included with all the relevant information that the laboratory should have
to contribute with better conclusions and recommendations for each analytic. Finally,
Section 6 details the most relevant conclusions and future outlook.
The new insight and conclusions that have been extracted from this study are expected
to provide a high archival value for researchers and practitioners, setting the basis to
develop further research on the ﬁeld and more precise industry actions. This will be not
only for maintainers in modifying and adding information to share with the laboratories,
but also for laboratories, who, with more information and more detail, will be in a position
to offer more speciﬁc and accurate conclusions and recommendations.
2. State of Art of the Information Exchanged between Different Companies
and Laboratories
The content of the information that accompanies each oil sample structure can be
deﬁned by two parties: the maintainer and the laboratory. Considering that there are
several laboratories [ 19] and maintainers [ 18], the consequence is that the information that
the laboratories receive is not widely standardized.
Historically the labels that accompany the bottle with the sample had little infor-
mation, but the situation has been improving in recent years. Nevertheless, there are
different situations in the operation of a wind farm that are practically never reﬂected in
the information received by the laboratory.
In Tables 1–7 this information from eight of the main maintainers and laboratories
is collected. The different topics are: (i) wind farm, (ii) wind turbine, (iii) gearbox, (iv)
lubricant, (v) protocol of the sample, (vi) traceability and (vii) comments or notes.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 4 of 18
Table 1. Content of the oil sample labels of eight of the main maintainers and laboratories regarding
wind farm. This table includes the necessary information to identify the wind farm and the client.
Topic
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
M-05
M-06
M-07
M-08
Namep p
Locationp p
Countryp p
Offshorep
Clientp p
In this case, most of the information is formal data used to recognize and classify
the sample. Most of the parties ignore this information and directly reference the sample
with the turbine (Table 2). In the case of the offshore ﬁle, even though only one company
requests it, it is important to detect if the turbine is installed at sea (offshore), due to
the increment of the costs in the corrective actions, especially in the substitutions of the
component. If the laboratory is familiar with this situation, they can be stricter with possible
follow-up actions.
Table 2. Content of the oil sample labels of eight of the main maintainers and laboratories, including
the relevant technical information of the wind turbine.
Topic
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
M-05
M-06
M-07
M-08
Brand (platform)p p p p p p
Modelp p p p
Serial numberp p p p p p
Reference identiﬁcationp p p p
Operation hoursp
Productionp
Work instruction numberp
On this occasion there is a part of the information related to the turbine formal data
and internal registers of the wind turbine that is mainly requested. The operation hours are
important in the case of substitution of the wind turbine, which is not common, but possible.
Depending on the internal organization, it is important to include the work instruction
to link this internal register with the sample taken. Just one in eight cases is included.
Table 3. Content of the oil sample labels of eight of the main maintainers and laboratories, including
the relevant technical information of the gearbox.
Topic
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
M-05
M-06
M-07
M-08
Brandp p p p p p
Modelp p p p
Serial numberp p p p p p
Capacity (litres)p p p p
Operation hoursp p p p p p
This is the topic where there is greatest uniformity, due to this information being key
to identifying the component of which the study is going to be done. The capacity of oil is
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 5 of 18
relevant to estimate how the external contamination can alter the results, thus, facing the
same quantity of contamination, the lower total quantity of oil in the gearbox, the biggest
effect and backwards. The most relevant information concerning the operational hours is
to know if the gearbox has been substituted and the previous trends should be reset.
Table 4. Content of the oil sample labels of eight of the main maintainers and laboratories regarding
lubricant. In this table it is included the identiﬁcation data of the oil and some operational aspects.
Topic
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
M-05
M-06
M-07
M-08
Brandp p p p p p p p
Lubricant hours (date
of the last oil change)p p p p p p
First analysis after oil
substitution (or new)p p
Top up (litres)p p p p p
Oil ﬁlter substitution
(before the sample)p p p p
The information included here also gathers an important consensus in some cases.
However, information such as oil top up, oil ﬁlter substitution or notice of the lubricant
change cannot be considered as standard information to include in the records, despite
its importance.
Table 5. Content of the oil sample labels of eight of the main maintainers and laboratories regarding
protocol of the sample, that is, the position of the sample taken.
Topic
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
M-05
M-06
M-07
M-08
Protocol (position of the sample)p
Only one in eight cases registers this information. As it was demonstrated in [ 14], the
different position of the sample taken can alter the results and therefore the conclusions.
Table 6. Content of the oil sample labels of eight of the main maintainers and laboratories regarding
traceability, with the different options to check the previous sample information.
Topic
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
M-05
M-06
M-07
M-08
Sample datep p p p p
Reference of the last samplep p p p
App (Application)p p p
Barcode/QR code (Quick Response code)p p p p
The evolution of traceability has improved in recent years, becoming more and more
relevant. New technologies in general, such as the use of smart phones, ad-hoc applications
or products like QR codes, have supported this evolution. However, not in all cases is there
good traceability of the analytics at different times, making it difﬁcult to analyse the trends
of the different parameters.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 6 of 18
Table 7. Content of the oil sample labels of eight of the main maintainers and laboratories regarding
other comments or notes to add complementary information.
Topic
M-01
M-02
M-03
M-04
M-05
M-06
M-07
M-08
Notes/Commentsp p p p p p
Contact
Finally, in most cases, there is an option to note additional comments not included in
the rest of the document.
In these seven tables it can be observed that, despite some common points existing,
there is no standardization in any area and there is a signiﬁcant lack of standard information
in many cases. Additionally, the information does not include aspects related to the
operational actions that can alter the results and recommendations. There are even some
cases where some relevant information can be obtained for comparison with previous
samples, but important aspects are not highlighted and can go undetected.
Considering this situation of lack of important information in many cases, the answers
and conclusions can be affected, causing answers: ( i) with various options, ( ii) that are
erroneous or ( iii) at worst with unidentiﬁed issues. Therefore, the speciﬁcity in the recom-
mendations can be altered in a similar manner. On many occasions the conclusions are
focused on the direct effect on the oil, whether in additives, wear elements or others, but
not so much on the origin of that effect, on what has caused it or the recommendations. As
examples of type of standard answers, the following can be differenced:
  Effect on the oil:
o Silica is signiﬁcantly high.
o High number of ferromagnetic particles.
o Slightly high copper content [28].
  Possible causes:
o Wear on bearings, bronze rings or pipes [29].
o Water absorption during oil storage or internal contamination.
o Mix of lubricants or external contamination.
o Pump failures or corrosion issues [30].
o Wear particles, clogging of the ﬁltration system or external contamination [ 31].
  Recommendations:
o Revise the system.
o Check the reference of the oil.
o Monitor evolution.
3. Different Situations That Affect the Results of the Analysis. Executed Gearbox Oil
Operation Tests in Wind T urbines. Prognosis of Gearbox
Once the information exchanged between different companies/laboratories has been
analysed, this section details different situations that may affect the results and how this
knowledge could be used to predict some events in advance, completing the necessary
study to propose a template that provides detailed information to laboratories to improve
the conclusions, recommendations and action plans.
This work considers two different tests that have been carried out in a total of 10 wind
turbines located on two independent wind farms, complementing the ﬁve tests in a total
of 30 wind turbines on ﬁve wind farms carried out in [ 14]. If previously actions that are
performed in the O&M such as leakage and oil ﬁlling; brand (and features) oil replacement;
installation of portable or online ﬁlter; high temperature of oil; and replacement of thermo-
static valves or position where the sample has been taken were explored; now others such
as air ﬁlter substitution are also analysed. Additionally, the analysis of the general results
and trends in cases that have ended up in damages, has been carried out to ﬁnd out the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 7 of 18
advanced knowledge of an incident. A detailed analysis of the above actions, dedicating a
section to each, is provided next.
3.1. Air Filter Substitution
The presence of water in the oil is another of the causes of its degradation. Although
the degradation effects were more aggressive a decade ago, the chemistry of the oil has
improved a lot and today’s gearbox oils can hold a lot of water, since its saturation point is
very high. However, the presence of water causes corrosion in the different components,
and a reduction in the useful life of the oil, the bearings and other components of the
gearbox. The following graph (Figure 1) shows that the drier (free of water) it is, the longer
the bearing will last [32]:
Energies 2021 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  7 of 19 
 
 
Energies  2021 , 14, x. https://doi.org/10.3390/xxxxx  www.mdpi.com/journal/ energies  This work considers two different tests t hat have been carried out in a total of 10 wind 
turbines located on two independent wind farms, complementing the five tests in a total 
of 30 wind turbines on five wind farms carried out in [14]. If previously actions that are 
performed in the O&M such as leakage and oil filling; brand (and features) oil replace-
ment; installation of portable or online filter; high temperature of oil; and replacement of 
thermostatic valves or position where the sample has been taken were explored; now oth-
ers such as air filt er substitution are also analysed. Additionally, the analysis of the general 
results and trends in cases that have ended up in damages, has been carried out to find 
out the advanced knowledge of an incident. A detailed analysis of the above actions, ded-
icating a section to each, is provided next.  
3.1. Air Filter Substitution  
The presence of water in the oil is another of the causes of its degradation. Although 
the degradation effects were more aggressive a decade ago, the chemistry of the oil has 
improved a  lot and today ’s gearbox oils can hold a lot of water, since its saturation point 
is very high. However, the presence of water causes corrosion in the different components, 
and a reduction in the useful life of the oil, the bearings and other components of  the 
gearbox. The following graph  (Figure 1)  shows that the drier (free of water) it is, the longer 
the bearing will last [32]:  
 
Figure 1. Relationship between water and bearing life. B ased on 100% storage with 0.01%/ 100 ppm water in the oil [26].  
The mai n causes of the increase in the percentage of water in the analysis results can 
be: 
(i) Water condensation due to low temperature operation (possible defect in the gearbox 
heaters) or prolonged shutdown periods. In this case water is usually found but in 
conce ntrations below 300  ppm. It is very rare for condensation to reach higher values 
unless the multi is open, without filter, etc.  
(ii) Inclusion of water during handling by introducing new oil into the gearbox due to 
the humidity of some components. Sometimes mix tures with other oils are  detected, 
including hydraulic oil (also used in other components of the wind turbine).  
(iii) Possible error due to humidity contamination in the bottle where the samples are 
collected. This situation is quite frequent when there has bee n an increase in the 
presence of water. Sometimes the sampling protocol is not followed scrupulously 
and the sample is collected in water bottles that are not completely dry. They are 
subsequently transferred to the final bottle with that water mixed with the oil sample.  
When one of these situations occurs, a specific filter can be used to decrease the pres-
ence of water in the oil and avoid its degradation. This filter is specifically designed to 
separate water, through a superabsorber reaction with the wat er present in the oil turning 
into a gel. These solid gel particles are collected in this filter, reducing the content of water 
in the oil [20].  
Figure 1. Relationship between water and bearing life. Based on 100% storage with 0.01%/100 ppm water in the oil [26].
The main causes of the increase in the percentage of water in the analysis results
can be:
(i)Water condensation due to low temperature operation (possible defect in the gearbox
heaters) or prolonged shutdown periods. In this case water is usually found but in
concentrations below 300 ppm. It is very rare for condensation to reach higher values
unless the multi is open, without ﬁlter, etc.
(ii)Inclusion of water during handling by introducing new oil into the gearbox due to
the humidity of some components. Sometimes mixtures with other oils are detected,
including hydraulic oil (also used in other components of the wind turbine).
(iii)Possible error due to humidity contamination in the bottle where the samples are
collected. This situation is quite frequent when there has been an increase in the
presence of water. Sometimes the sampling protocol is not followed scrupulously
and the sample is collected in water bottles that are not completely dry. They are
subsequently transferred to the ﬁnal bottle with that water mixed with the oil sample.
When one of these situations occurs, a speciﬁc ﬁlter can be used to decrease the
presence of water in the oil and avoid its degradation. This ﬁlter is speciﬁcally designed to
separate water, through a superabsorber reaction with the water present in the oil turning
into a gel. These solid gel particles are collected in this ﬁlter, reducing the content of water
in the oil [20].
3.2. Prognosis of Gearbox
Prognosis can be deﬁned as the anticipated knowledge of an event [ 33]. Despite being
a concept that is more typically used in other sectors such as medicine or meteorological
predictions, it also has its importance and utility in engineering in general, and the oil
analysis of gearboxes in particular [34].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 8 of 18
This study seeks to analyse the values prior to damage, once a relevant incident that
occurred such as the replacement of gears, bearings or ultimately the replacement of the
gearbox. These values include previous trends to detect possible behaviour patterns that,
in a high percentage will end in damage, to tackle the problem in its earliest stages.
In this case, detailed information such as the cause of the incident, the oil level, possible
particles in the metal particle detectors of the gearbox, or even warnings, alarms and
information from the condition monitoring system (CMS) [ 35] would be important for the
laboratories to be able to study in depth the type of relationships between the parameters
of the physical-chemical analysis of the oil and the rest of the operational information.
Nowadays, oil analytics are managed as one of the tools used to determine the status
of the gearbox or at least to determine more speciﬁc measures such as endoscopies [ 36] or
other actions. Nevertheless, to improve the reliability, scope and precision in conclusions,
it is also necessary to use this information ﬂow in reverse, in such a way that operational
information helps oil analytics not only be part of the information used to make other
decisions but also be part of an integral process.
3.3. Background and Previous Studies
Both in [ 14] and in this work, speciﬁc circumstances that can alter the results and con-
clusions of the oil analytics results have been analysed with different tests. The following
compilation brieﬂy revisits the ﬁndings in [ 14] and adds some further issues that were not
previously studied:
3.3.1. Oil
 Brand (and features) oil replacement [14].
In an oil replacement, the substitution of the oil brand may occur in some cases. In
this scenario, most of the components are similar, but the additives might change. The
experimental results considered the substitution of the oil brand in 13 wind turbines at
the same site and exposed to the same meteorological conditions, collecting data every
six months, from 2012 to 2016. When the oil brand is changed, remains of the old oil
after cleaning and “ﬂushing” the gearbox are not completely eliminated. Since the brand
replacement in these tests implies a different chemical composition and proportions of
additives (even different additives), the mixture of the remains with the new oil causes
a contamination of the new results. As a consequence of this oil brand replacement, the
result of the 13 tests of new oil would be ﬂagged as a “danger” considering that there are
components such as molybdenum, zinc and magnesium that widely exceed the admissible
ranges for this oil brand.
3.3.2. Sample
 Position of sample taking [14].
Two samples of the same oil for the same gearbox with 320 litres of a 1.5 MW wind
turbine were taken at the same time and analysed in the same world-renowned laboratory
in the second quarter of 2018. The only difference is the position of the sample collection,
before and after the ﬁltering (position 1 and 2, respectively, in Figure 2).
The results show that the increase of the three types of particle sizes would be: ( i) 20%
in the case of particles >4 m, (ii) 33% for >6 m and (iii) 7% in particles >14 m, concluding
that the ﬁlter dirtiness has altered the values and the results can be different depending on
the position sample.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 9 of 18
Figure 2. Gearbox oil cooling circuit. Sampling position options: option 1 when the sampling is done
before the oil ﬁlter system and option 2 when the sampling is performed after the oil ﬁlter system.
3.3.3. Incipient Damage in Gearbox/Component Replacement
 High Temperature of Oil and Replacement of Thermostatic Valves [14].
The temperature of the gearbox oil is continuously monitored through thermovalves [ 24].
The internal pieces of these components are in permanent contact with the oil. When a
new thermovalve is substituted, the levels of iron and copper present in their composition
trigger an increase in the levels of these wear components.
The data pertaining to the period from November 2014 to December 2016 for twenty
2.5 MW wind turbines of the same technology, wind farm, site and meteorological condi-
tions was studied to check the effect of the oil valves substitution.
After analysing the data from twenty turbines, an increase in temperatures was
detected in two turbines (out of range of the average of the other 18) due to the incorrect
performance of the oil valves. When the valves are substituted the oil temperature clearly
goes back to close to average temperature values, but there is a relevant increase of wear
elements such as zinc (Zn) and copper (Cu).
3.3.4. Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
 Installation of Portable Off-Line Filters [14].
The oil ﬁlter is a common component in most gearboxes of multi-megawatt wind
turbines, but there is a second piece of equipment called off-line ﬁlter, which is more
effective and provides a higher quality ﬁltering [ 22], which can be installed permanently or
temporarily (Figure 3).
Figure 3. Gearbox oil cooling circuit. Gearbox ofﬂine oil ﬁltration area.
The results of a test carried out in six 1.5 MW turbines of the same wind farm before
and after the installation of the portable ﬁlter show that in ﬁve cases, the reduction of oil
dirt and wear particles greater than 4 m, 6m and 14 m is around 66%, hence conﬁrming
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 10 of 18
the (positive) impact of the off-line ﬁltering practice and showing how the improvement in
oil condition is more evident in oils with a higher concentration of particles.
 Leakage and Oil Filling [14].
When a leak appears in any component of a gearbox such as joints, seals, valves or
ﬁlters, there is a loss of oil volume, which results in some oil degradation [ 19]. This fact is
usually accompanied by a ﬁlling with new oil with intact properties.
The experimental results with a gearbox of a 2.5 MW turbine on ﬁve different occasions
at a frequency of six months showed that the reﬁll, with the intact properties of the new oil,
generates a positive contamination that alters the evolution of the theoretical values in the
oil analysis results and improves the general condition of the oil.
4. Results
The O&M actions described in Sections 3.1 and 3.2 are analysed and discussed next
in the light of extensive experimental results. Each action is individually studied in the
following sections, providing real tests from 10 wind turbines that have two different
technologies.
4.1. Air Filter Substitution
In this test, the evolution of the water presence in the oil was checked in ﬁve gearboxes
of a 2.5 MW turbine on seven different occasions, labelled test 1 to test 7, at a frequency of
six months from 2015 to 2019 in a world-renowned laboratory. A continuous increment
of water in the oil of the ﬁve gearboxes was taking place since 2015, with a large increase
in the last months, during 2018 and 2109 (from test 5 to test 6). Immediately after test 6,
special ﬁlters for water reduction were installed in the gearboxes, so they were working for
six months, until the next test, number 7.
The experimental results from Figure 4 show that, after test 6, the installation of
speciﬁc water reduction ﬁlters in all the gearboxes caused an important reduction in the
presence of water. This drop in water values was conﬁrmed in all the cases and, with
an average reduction of 40%, took them to values registered two years earlier. Here, it is
conﬁrmed that the results of the oil condition were altered (improved) due to an external
action, in this case, the implementation of a special ﬁlter that reduces the water in the oil.
Figure 4. Water evolution in oil in ﬁve gearboxes.
4.2. Prognosis of Gearbox Damages
Past trends of oil results of gearboxes which have experienced degeneration, or even
substitutions of these components, have been studied to analyse the evolution of the
different parameters the months or years before the incident. In this case, four 2.0 MW
wind turbines with the same technology in the period from 2013 to 2019 were studied.
Case 1: Figure 5 shows the evolution of the zinc (Zn) level in the last nine tests, with
a periodicity of six months between each test, from August 2013 to December 2017 in
an eleven-year-old wind turbine. The increment was constant from low levels until the
amount tripled, reaching the warning zone prior to dangerous values.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 11 of 18
Figure 5. Evolution of Zn ppm (Zinc particles) in oil in the last nine tests.
The rest of the collected information on this gearbox registered in Table 8 does not
provide any relevant suggestion of previous damages, excepting a few metal particles in
the metal sensor, that is, a magnet placed inside the gearbox. This information, together
with the evolution of zinc, could indicate a constant deterioration in some material with this
component, such as tubes, valves or bearings, which has ultimately led to further damage.
Table 8. Compilation of operational information prior to the event in Case 1.
Turbine detector informationWarnings No warnings
Alarms No alarms
CMS -
Gearbox detector informationOil level Ok
Magnet Few particles
In-line ﬁlter metal particles Few particles
Off-line ﬁlter metal particles Ok
Damages/
ConsequencesDamagesIndentations and abrasive marks on gears and bearings.
Fractures in a bearing.
ConsequencesStoppage of the turbine and substitution of the damaged
bearing and the next closest (for prevention).
Case 2: the evolution of zinc and phosphorus in Figure 6 shows a normal evolution
every six months up to test 6. From this point on a slow, but progressive reduction of the
phosphorus level is identiﬁed.
Figure 6. Evolution of Zn ppm (zinc particles) and P ppm (phosphorus particles) in oil in the last ten tests.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 12 of 18
In the case of zinc, an important increase in the values is reﬂected in the last three
tests. In both cases, the values were within the normal limits, except in the previous tests to
the incident, when both parameters reached a warning state. The data includes the period
from June 2013 to September 2018.
Regarding the damages, Table 9 shows that a displacement of a planet gear of the
gearbox was produced, which generated a detachment of metal particles and a sudden
increase in temperature. Additionally, the level of oil was below the minimum level. The
consequence of these serious damages was the substitution of the gearbox.
Table 9. Compilation of operational information prior to the event in Case 2.
Turbine detector informationWarnings No alarms
Alarms Increment of oil temperature
CMS -
Gearbox detector informationOil level Below minimum
Magnet Abundant small particles
In-line ﬁlter metal particles Abundant small particles
Off-line ﬁlter metal particles -
Damages/
ConsequencesDamages Displacement of a planet gear of the gearbox
Consequences Gearbox replacement
Case 3: Figure 7 evidences that the evolution of the iron (Fe) levels has been increasing
constantly every six months from the ﬁrst test to the last, that is, from October 2013 to
March 2019, in a thirteen-year-old wind turbine. From test 7 on the values are in a warning
state and the last two tests before the stoppage show how the values continue to grow
entering a danger phase.
Figure 7. Evolution of Fe ppm (iron particles) in oil in the last eleven tests.
There was no additional information that revealed any damages beyond oil analysis
and few small metal particles in the magnet of the gearbox, as shown in Table 10.
This case shows the importance of the oil analysis results and trends. The damaged
component cannot be replaced due to the disposition in the gearbox, so the solution is to
verify the status of the gearbox components using a videoscope periodically. That is, in
this case a deﬁnitive solution is not possible, but the gearbox can continue operating under
periodical monitoring.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 13 of 18
Table 10. Compilation of operational information prior to the event in Case 3.
Turbine detector informationWarnings No warnings
Alarms No alarms
CMS -
Gearbox detector informationOil level Ok
Magnet Few small particles
In-line ﬁlter metal particles Ok
Off-line ﬁlter metal particles -
Damages/
ConsequencesDamagesMacropitting, indentations and marks [29] in a planet
carrier bearing [30]
ConsequencesCheck evolution every three months. Possible future
substitution
Case 4: the evolution of phosphorus (P) in the oil represented in Figure 8 has suffered
a relevant decrease between tests 5 and 6, going from normal levels to warning levels. The
analysis includes semiannual tests from December 2013 to March 2017.
Figure 8. Evolution of P ppm (phosphorus particles) in oil in the last seven tests.
The information collected in Table 11 shows a clear case of catastrophic damage,
without any relevant warnings in the different detectors of the turbine in general and
the gearbox in particular. In this situation the gearbox must remain stopped until it can
be replaced.
Table 11. Compilation of operational information prior to the event in Case 4.
Turbine detector informationWarnings No warnings
Alarms No alarms
CMS Warning
Gearbox detector informationOil level Above maximum
Magnet Few particles
In-line ﬁlter metal particles Few particles
Off-line ﬁlter metal particles Few particles
Damages/
ConsequencesDamages Multiple broken teeth
Consequences Substitution of the gearbox
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 14 of 18
5. Sample Template Proposal
Considering the state of art developed in Section 2, the different situations that affect
the results (Sections 3 and 4) and the importance of the prognosis (Sections 3 and 4), a new
global template is proposed below. The objectives of publishing this template are: ( i) to
be an option that can be used on any wind farm around the world, ( ii) to minimize the
time taken to ﬁll out the form, ( iii) to contribute to standardizing the information handled
by all parties and ( iv) to provide detailed information to the laboratories to improve the
conclusions, recommendations and action plans.
This template has been designed with the objectives of reduction of completion times
and without non-relevant information. The fulﬁlment of this template should be executed
not only by the technicians, but also with managers or technical ofﬁcers, since there are
historical data and reference numbers to be located.
The method for attaching the information can be: ( i) physical (on paper), including
a sticker with the QR code [ 37] to stick on the bottles or ( ii) digital, including all the
information in an application (app), also making use of the QR code sticker.
Lastly, contact with the laboratory would be available to have support in case of doubts.
Energies 2021 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  14 of 18 
 
  
The justification for the content of the template is explained be low section by section:  
1) Identification/Traceability. In this case the identification of the sample and the assur-
ance of the correct order of historical trends is key for a long -term analysis. As ex-
plained in Section 2, Table 6, the use of smart phones and ad-hoc applications or 
products like QR codes, can provide comfort and reliability when managing infor-
mation.  

------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 15 of 18
The justiﬁcation for the content of the template is explained below section by section:
(1) Identiﬁcation/Traceability. In this case the identiﬁcation of the sample and the as-
surance of the correct order of historical trends is key for a long-term analysis. As
explained in Section 2, Table 6, the use of smart phones and ad-hoc applications or
products like QR codes, can provide comfort and reliability when managing information.
(2) Wind Farm. As explained in Section 2, Table 1, most of the parties ignore this informa-
tion. This template includes all the information related with the wind farm and the
reference for offshore wind farms, in which case the actions and recommendations
could be different.
(3) Wind Turbine. In this item, all the data registered in any case in Section 2, Table 2,
are included. Nevertheless, in this case it is included an operation counter with three
different options: kWh, hours and months.
(4) Gearbox. The substitution of the gearbox has been highlighted in this template due to
the relevance of this situation, even though this information could be detected with
the operation counter. The possible top up has been included in this chapter with
the capacity of the gearbox in order to consider the proportion of new oil and the
effects on the results. The consequences of the top up are summarized in Section 3.1
Background and previous studies and demonstrated in [14].
(5) Lubricant. The change of brand has a speciﬁc and direct question to ensure that this
situation is considered in the analysis. As it was demonstrated in [ 14] and compiled in
Section 3.1, Background and previous studies, it may generate relevant consequences
on the results and action plans. There is also a speciﬁc question that focuses on the
ﬁrst analysis after substitution, that justify the different results with the past trends.
This question is different and complementary to the information included in chapter
1. Identiﬁcation/Traceability, where the question is referred to the ﬁrst register of the
oil in the gearbox and there is not any historical information.
(6) Operation and Maintenance. Because of the analysis and tests executed and explained
in [14], Section 3. Different situations that affect the results of the analysis. Executed
gearbox oil operation tests in wind turbines. Prognosis of gearbox and Section 4 . Re-
sults, this chapter includes speciﬁc and novel questions regarding different situations
that occur in the operation and maintenance of a wind turbine. The correct answer to
these questions, including periods or dates, are critical to achieve reliable results and
conclusions in these cases.
(7) Substitution of gearbox or any internal component (bearings, gears, shafts . . .). In
this case, when a substitution of an internal component of the gearbox is executed, it
is relevant to collect all the available registers from different sources of information
provided by the wind turbine. In Section 3.3 Prognosis of Gearbox it is explained the
value of this detailed information for the laboratories. In Section 4.2. Prognosis of
Gearbox Damages four cases have been analysed showing the evolution of different
parameters during the previous years to the incident and its consequences.
(8) Comments. If any relevant information is not included in the previous questions, it
can be highlight in this section. The contact with the laboratory should be included to
have access to solve questions or doubts.
6. Conclusions and Future Outlook
After analysing different situations and events relatively habitual in the operation and
maintenance of the gearbox of a wind turbine, this study has demonstrated that the oil
analysis results can be altered. As important as detecting these situations is to verify how
the data collected by the different operators and transferred to the laboratories does not
include this information in most cases.
All these events studied in this article and in [ 14] describe different situations that
can alter the results and conﬁrm the approaches: ( i) air ﬁlter substitution, ( ii) brand (and
features) oil replacement, ( iii) high temperature of oil and replacement of thermostatic
valves, ( iv) installation of portable off-line ﬁlters, ( v) leakage and oil ﬁlling or ( vi) position of
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 16 of 18
sample collection. Additionally, the study of the anticipated knowledge of some incidents
conﬁrms the importance of collecting and analysing the information of aspects related
with the past operation of the gearbox and how future damages can be anticipated in
some cases.
The consequences of this situation can be, on the one hand the execution of new
unnecessary tasks and costs such as: ( i) oil reﬁlls, ( ii) ofﬂine ﬁltering, ( iii) new oil samplings,
(iv) videoscopes or ( v) vibration analysis, including technicians’ extra work and loss of
production. On the other hand, without reliable information that warns of risk situations,
no actions can be taken and the propagation of the problem cannot be stopped, leading to
need for replacement of components, even complete gearboxes, with production loss and
associated crane costs.
The proposal included in this paper seeks to incorporate new information in a routine
and standardized way to generate a new climate of collaboration between the parties.
It is necessary to understand that information must ﬂow in both directions to provide
each other with feedback and increasingly count on more reliable conclusions. Using this
template would be a “win-win” for both parties. Therefore, it is necessary to impregnate
this culture of collaboration throughout the value chain, both on the maintainer side, with
the process of taking samples and sending information to the laboratory, and the laboratory
side, to deepen the knowledge of the situations that may have affected the results, as well
as to provide more accurate conclusions and recommendations.
The maintainer must bear in mind that ﬁlling in the oil information is not a mere
procedure, rather something that will take more time, but that will record tremendously
valuable information. Additionally, it should be taken into consideration that, without the
data, they would be able to improve the systems in this sector but would never have the
necessary input data. When taking an oil sample, the canister with the amount of oil to be
analysed should be considered as important as the information attached to that canister. It
must be considered that information that has been generated for six months (or the time
that is determined) is as important at a particular level in the short term, as at a global level
in the medium-long term.
The proposed template has been designed after an in-depth study from extensive
experimental results with the aim of creating a practical tool that can be used imminently in
any technology worldwide. From there, laboratories will be able to receive this information
and standardize, analyse, apply algorithms and even artiﬁcial intelligence to derive patterns
of behaviour with the information from the millions of annual samples they analyse. This
will help laboratories to predict future results based on the actions carried out on the
gearbox and deal with values altered by external agents as a result of any of these speciﬁc
actions. Even with a few improvements applied, the global impact could be enormous
in terms of the beneﬁts and ultimately it would be an advance in the evolution of the
operation and maintenance of wind farms that would become a permanent ﬁxture.
In this way, the objective of future research is to better understand these patterns of
behaviour taking into account all the new available information that the laboratories will
have obtained using statistical methods.
Author Contributions: Data curation, J.R.d. Á.S.; Investigation, J.R.d. Á.S.; Methodology, M.J.D.M.,
J.A. and F.J.M.G.; Supervision, M.J.D.M. and F.J.M.G.; Writing—original draft, J.R.d. Á.S.; Writing—
review & editing, M.J.D.M. and F.J.M.G. All authors have read and agreed to the published version
of the manuscript.
Funding: Please add: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 17 of 18
References
1. Ohlenforst, K.; Sawyer, S. Dutton. Global Wind Report 2018 ; Technical Support; Global Wind Energy Council: Brussels, Belgium,
2019.
2. Yildirim, M.; Gebraeel, N.Z.; Sun, X.A. Integrated predictive analytics and optimization for opportunistic maintenance and
operations in wind farms. IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 2017 ,32, 4319–4328. [CrossRef]
3. Shaﬁee, M.; Sørensen, J.D. Maintenance optimization and inspection planning of wind energy assets: Models, methods and
strategies. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Safety 2019 ,192, 105993. [CrossRef]
4. Jiménez, A.E.; Berm údez, M.D.; Iglesias, P .; Carri ón, F.J.; Mart ínez-Nicol ás, G. 1-N-alkyl-3-methylimidazolium ionic liquids as
neat lubricants and lubricant additives in steel–aluminium contacts. Wear 2006 ,260, 766–782. [CrossRef]
5. Bezzaoucha, F.S.; Sahnoun, M.H.; Benslimane, S.M. Failure causes based wind turbine components classiﬁcation and failure
propagation: For proactive maintenance implementatio. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Wind Energy
and Applications in Algeria (ICWEAA), Algiers, Algeria, 6–7 November 2018; pp. 1–6.
6. Sinha, Y.; Steel, J.A.; Andrawus, J.A.; Gibson, K. Signiﬁcance of Effective Lubrication in Mitigating System Failures—A Wind
Turbine Gearbox Case Study. Wind Eng. 2014 ,38, 441–449. [CrossRef]
7. Sheng, S.; Mcdade, M.; Errichello, R. Wind Turbine Gearbox Failure Modes: A Brief ; National Renewable Energy Laboratory: Golden,
CO, USA, 2011.
8. Junior, V .J.; Zhou, J.; Roshanmanesh, S.; Hayati, F.; Hajiabady, S.; Li, X.Y.; Dong, H.; Papaelias, M. Evaluation of damage mechanics
of industrial wind turbine gearboxes. Insight-Non-Destr. Test. Cond. Monit. 2017 ,59, 410–414. [CrossRef]
9. Roggenburg, M.; Esquivel-Puentes, H.A.; Vacca, A.; Evans, H.B.; Garcia-Bravo, J.M.; Warsinger, D.M.; Ivantysynova, M.;
Castillo, L. Techno-economic analysis of a hydraulic transmission for ﬂoating offshore wind turbines. Renew. Energy 2020 ,153,
1194–1204. [CrossRef]
10. Enevoldsen, P .; Xydis, G. Examining the trends of 35 years growth of key wind turbine components. Energy Sustain. Dev. 2019 ,50,
18–26. [CrossRef]
11. Churchﬁeld, M.J.; Lee, S.; Michalakes, J.; Moriarty, P .J. A numerical study of the effects of atmospheric and wake turbulence on
wind turbine dynamics. J. Turbul. 2012 ,13, N14. [CrossRef]
12. Carroll, J.; McDonald, A.; McMillan, D. Failure rate, repair time and unscheduled O&M cost analysis of offshore wind turbines.
Wind Energy 2016 ,19, 1107–1119.
13. Nachimuthu, S.; Zuo, M.J.; Ding, Y. A decision-making model for corrective maintenance of offshore wind turbines considering
uncertainties. Energies 2019 ,12, 1408. [CrossRef]
14. delÁlamo, J.R.; Duran, M.J.; Muñoz, F.J. Analysis of the Gearbox Oil Maintenance Procedures in Wind Energy. Energies 2020 ,13,
3414. [CrossRef]
15. Ackermann, T.; Söder, L. Wind energy technology and current status: A review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2000 ,4, 315–374.
[CrossRef]
16. Ragheb, A.; Ragheb, M. Wind turbine gearbox technologies. In Proceedings of the 2010 1st International Nuclear & Renewable
Energy Conference (INREC), Amman, Jordan, 21–24 March 2010; pp. 1–8.
17. Pozo, F.; Vidal, Y.; Salgado, Ó. Wind turbine condition monitoring strategy through multiway PCA and multivariate inference.
Energies 2018 ,11, 749. [CrossRef]
18. Nicholas, G.; Clarke, B.P .; Dwyer-Joyce, R.S. Detection of Lubrication State in a Field Operational Wind Turbine Gearbox Bearing
Using Ultrasonic Reﬂectometry. Lubricants 2021 ,9, 6. [CrossRef]
19. Pozo, F.; Vidal, Y.; Serrahima, J.M. On real-time fault detection in wind turbines: Sensor selection algorithm and detection time
reduction analysis. Energies 2016 ,9, 520. [CrossRef]
20. Pozo, F.; Vidal, Y. Wind turbine fault detection through principal component analysis and statistical hypothesis testing. Energies
2016 ,9, 3. [CrossRef]
21. Tang, M.; Zhao, Q.; Ding, S.X.; Wu, H.; Li, L.; Long, W.; Huang, B. An improved lightGBM algorithm for online fault detection of
wind turbine gearboxes. Energies 2020 ,13, 807. [CrossRef]
22. Velandia-Cardenas, C.; Vidal, Y.; Pozo, F. Wind Turbine Fault Detection Using Highly Imbalanced Real SCADA Data. Energies
2021 ,14, 1728. [CrossRef]
23. Dempsey, P .J.; Lewicki, D.G.; Decker, H.J. Investigation of Gear and Bearing Fatigue Damage Using Debris Particle Distributions ;
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Cleveland Oh Glenn Research Center: Belvoir, VA, USA, 2004.
24. Wind Turbine Manufactures. Online Access. The Wind Power. Wind Energy Market Intelligence. Available online: https:
//www.thewindpower.net/online_access_en.php (accessed on 8 September 2020).
25. Oil and Petroleum Testing Laboratories. Contract Laboratories by Industries and Products ; Contract Laboratory: Boise, ID, USA, 2020.
26. Hydac International. Betamicron®/Aquamicron®-Filter Elements ; Hydac International: Sulzbach, Germany, 2019.
27. De Novaes Pires Leite, G.; Ara újo, A.M.; Rosas, P .A.C. Prognostic techniques applied to maintenance of wind turbines: A concise
and speciﬁc review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2018 ,81, 1917–1925. [CrossRef]
28. Adebogun, A.; Hudson, R.; Breakspear, A.; Warrens, C.; Gholinia, A.; Matthews, A.; Withers, P . Industrial gear oils: Tribological
performance and subsurface changes. Tribol. Lett. 2018 ,66, 65. [CrossRef]
29. Gould, B.; Demas, N.G.; Pollard, G.; Rydel, J.J.; Ingram, M.; Greco, A.C. The effect of lubricant composition on white etching
crack failures. Tribol. Lett. 2019 ,67, 7. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2021 ,14, 3572 18 of 18
30. Lisiecki, A. Tribology and Surface Engineering ; Coatins: Gliwice, Poland, 2019.
31. International Organization for Standardization. Standard, British. BS ISO 4406: 1999 Hydraulic Fluid Power—Fluids—Method for
Coding the Level of Contamination by Solid Particles ; International Organization for Standardization: Geneva, Switzerland, 1999.
32. Timken Bearing Co. How Dirt and Water Affect Bearing Life. Machine Design ; Timken Bearing Co.: North Canton, OH, USA, 1986.
33. Zhang, X.; Kang, J.; Zhao, J.S.; Cao, D.C. Features for fault diagnosis and prognosis of gearbox. Chem. Eng. Trans. 2013 ,33,
1027–1032.
34. Teng, W.; Zhang, X.; Liu, Y.; Kusiak, A.; Ma, Z. Prognosis of the remaining useful life of bearings in a wind turbine gearbox.
Energies 2017 ,10, 32. [CrossRef]
35. Giebhardt, J. Wind turbine condition monitoring systems and techniques. In Wind Energy Systems ; Woodhead Publishing:
Cambridge, UK, 2011; pp. 329–349.
36. Tchakoua, P .; Wamkeue, R.; Tameghe, T.A.; Ekemb, G. A review of concepts and methods for wind turbines condition monitoring.
In Proceedings of the 2013 World Congress on Computer and Information Technology (WCCIT), Sousse, Tunisia, 22–24 June 2013;
pp. 1–9.
37. Sankara, N. QR Codes and Security Solutions. Int. J. Comput. Sci. Telecommun. 2012 ,3, 7.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
