machines
Article
Monitoring the Oil of Wind-T urbine Gearboxes:
Main Degradation Indicators and Detection Methods
Diego Coronado1and Jan Wenske2,*
1OELCHECK GmbH, Kerschelweg 29, 83098 Brannenburg, Germany; dcg@oelcheck.de
2Fraunhofer Institute for Wind Energy Systems IWES, Am Luneort 100, 27572 Bremerhaven, Germany
*Correspondence: jan.wenske@iwes.fraunhofer.de
Received: 15 March 2018; Accepted: 5 June 2018; Published: 8 June 2018
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Abstract: Oil condition monitoring is a common practice in the wind industry . However, the published
research about oil degradation in wind turbine gearboxes is limited. This paper aims at providing new
information on the oil degradation process by analyzing wind turbine gearbox oils aged in the laboratory
and in the field. Oil samples were analyzed in the laboratory and two sensors were used to determine the
oil condition by means of dielectric constant and conductivity measurements. Additionally , micropitting
tests were carried out for three oils with different base stocks. The results of this study show that viscosity
changes of the oils from the field were not significant.Extreme pressure additives depletion and the
increase of the iron content are among the most relevant degradation indicators. The oil sensors used in
this study provided limited information on the oil degradation process. The accuracy of the sensors was
affected by the oil type and its measurement range. The results of the micropitting tests showed that
even aged oils exhibited a high micropitting resistance.
Keywords: wind turbines; oil condition monitoring; gearboxes; oil sensors; oil analysis; oil degradation;
oil sampling
1. Introduction
According to WindEurope [ 1], wind energy has become the second largest form of power
generation capacity in Europe, with a total installed power of 153.3 GW, corresponding to 17% of the
European power generation capacity. Larger wind turbines are being installed and the reliability of the
main components has been the focus of several research initiatives. In [ 2,3], two gearboxes were used
to validate drive train models and test different condition monitoring systems (CMS). In [ 4], a study
of downtime and failure rate of the different wind turbine components was carried out. The results
indicated that major replacements in gearboxes cause signiﬁcant downtime. As a gearbox failure
implies signiﬁcant downtime, the reliability of this component is of vital importance to reduce the
operation and maintenance costs (O&M) of wind turbines. Early bearing failures due to white etching
cracks (WEC) have been affecting wind turbines and have been the focus of several studies [ 5–8].
The inﬂuence of additives and oil type on WEC has also been investigated [ 9]. It is important to
consider that, independent of the failure mode, the oil plays an essential role in reducing friction and
wear, allowing for proper operation of the gearbox. Therefore, the oil condition and its degradation
have a direct impact on the reliability of this component.
CMS have become a standard solution in modern wind turbines. Condition monitoring (CM) is
carried out based on two different approaches. The ﬁrst approach, known as ofﬂine-CM, means that
the parameters are obtained without the necessity of continuous measurements during the operation
of the turbine, for example, gearbox oil sampling. In contrast, online-CM is based on permanently
installed systems providing continuous signals to perform fault detection and diagnosis, such as the
classical vibration-based CMS in the drive train. Some other approaches focus on the utilization of
Machines 2018 ,6, 25; doi:10.3390/machines6020025 www.mdpi.com/journal/machines
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 2 of 24
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system data to perform condition monitoring
and maintenance management [ 10,11]. Model-based CM can be carried out by creating a model of the
wind turbine behavior and identifying faulty conditions. In [ 12,13], a benchmark model was used to
test several fault detection approaches, such as Kalman ﬁlters, support vector machine algorithms,
state space set membership consistency tests, and others. This approach allows for performing fault
identiﬁcation and isolation only with standard measurements of the wind turbine control system
and offers the possibility of studying sensor faults, such as faulty pitch position measurements,
actuator faults such as faults in hydraulics of the pitch system, or system faults such as drive train
faults indicated by an increased friction coefﬁcient in the gearbox. This benchmark model also offers the
possibility of testing fault-tolerant control methods by simulating sensor and actuator faults [ 14]. In [ 15],
two fault-tolerant torque control methods were tested based on fuzzy modeling and identiﬁcation,
where actuator faults were simulated with a passive (without knowledge of the faults nor of a fault
detection system) and an active approach (with automatic signal correction) showing good results for
the analyzed scenarios compared with classical control system methods. Oil condition monitoring
(OCM) has been implemented in wind turbines to help identify gearbox faults and deﬁne oil change
intervals. Depending on its size, a wind turbine gearbox needs an oil quantity between 200 and 800 L.
Therefore, extending oil change intervals by using the maximum achievable life span of the oil leads to
a reduction in the O&M costs. OCM is conducted mainly by oil sampling and in some cases by sensors
measuring parameters such as oil cleanliness and wear debris production [ 16]. Other studies related
to OCM focused on the validation of a sensor to detect developing faults and provide information
about additive depletion and oil degradation [ 17,18]. In [ 19], a detailed review of different OCM
approaches for wind turbine gearboxes was performed. The review shows the different forms of oil
degradation caused by oxidation, water contamination, temperature and viscosity changes, as well as
different methods to perform oil analysis. Additionally, the author proposed a combined approach
of several OCM methods such as ﬂuorescence spectroscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy,
photoacoustic spectroscopy and viscosity measurements in order to improve the robustness of the
oil-based CMS performing a multivariate analysis from the obtained measurements. For further
information about CMS for wind turbines, the reader is referred to [20–25].
Even if OCM is current practice in the wind industry, there is limited published information about
the degradation of the oil in wind turbine gearboxes. In [ 26], a study showing changes of some oil
properties due to the operation of the gearbox with a signiﬁcant amount of oil samples was carried
out. However, the study comprised only one oil brand and limited information about the operating
condition of the wind turbines was provided. Mineral oil degradation and its additives have been
studied for several years, especially for internal combustion engine (ICE) applications [ 27]. In view of
the important role of the oil condition in determining an oil change, this paper aims to provide a better
understanding of the oil degradation process in wind turbine gearboxes.
This paper can be divided into three main sections. The ﬁrst section reviews the characteristics
of oil for wind turbine gearboxes and provides an overview of additives, oil degradation, and OCM.
The second section explains in detail the approach used to recreate and assess oil degradation and
the objective of the experiments. The third section presents the results of the tests and provides new
information to better understand the degradation process of the oil. Finally, we summarize the main
results and point out the most important aspects for further research.
2. State of the Art
2.1. Oils for Wind Turbine Gearboxes
The use of high-performance synthetic oils for wind turbine applications is gaining more
acceptance within the industry, as reﬂected by the large variety of synthetic products currently
available for wind turbine gearboxes. Even if synthetic oils are more expensive than mineral oils,
their good thermal stability, lower pour points, and higher viscosity indexes (VI) make them very
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 3 of 24
attractive for operators and manufacturers of wind turbines [ 28]. The VI describes the changes of the
oil viscosity with temperature: the higher the VI, the lower the changes in the viscosity with increasing
temperature, which leads to better lubrication for variable operating conditions. Oils are composed of
a base stock and additives. For the sake of simplicity, the oils in this paper will be designated only
by their base stock. The most typical base stock used in wind turbine gearboxes is poly-alpha-oleﬁn
(PAO). PAOs are synthetic oils consisting of a straight hydrocarbon chain with an unsaturated carbon
at one end of the chain. Even if there is a signiﬁcant amount of turbines still operating with mineral oil,
newly installed turbines tend to be ﬁlled with synthetic oils. Another oil base stock used recently in
wind turbines is poly-alkylene-glycol (PAG). PAGs are also synthetic oils and have a higher VI than
PAOs. PAOs have a VI between 140 and 180, while PAGs have a VI between 180 and 260. This high
VI provides a better temperature viscosity behavior than mineral oils, which only have a VI around
90 (no hydrocracked oils). The viscosity grade (VG) for wind turbine gearbox oil is 320, which means
that the kinematic viscosity of the oil at 40C lies between 320 mm2/s10%. All the oils for wind
turbines comply with the requirements of DIN 51517-3 [ 29]. The IEC 61400-4 provides an overview
of the minimal requirements for oil in wind turbines [ 30]. These requirements comprise tests of gear
and bearing wear, as well as the assessment of fatigue and mixed friction lubrication conditions in
FE-8 and FZG test rigs [ 31,32]. Additionally, tests are available to assess oil corrosion and shear
stability [ 33,34]. The oil compatibility with elastomers can also be assessed based on [ 35]. As the tests
in the standards are only minimal requirements; commercial oils can exhibit superior performance
characteristics. This means that two oils complying with all the requirements stated in the norms can
show very different behavior and performance in the ﬁeld. In addition, gearbox manufactures can
have additional or different requirements, which also limits the list of lubricants that can be used in the
gearbox. Commercial oils must meet demanding requirements before being used in the ﬁeld. However,
their performance above the limits of the standards is the deciding factor in the life span of the oil.
2.2. Additives Used in Oils for Wind Turbine Gearboxes
The additive content and formulation play a decisive role in the performance of the oil.
Their composition and interaction is very complex and partly unknown due to the vast number
of patents and the know-how of each oil manufacturer. However, some general knowledge is
available in the literature. In [ 36], an extensive description of various types of additives for different
applications is provided. For wind turbines, the most common types of additives are anti-wear
(AW) and extreme-pressure (EP) additives. Other type of additives such as antioxidants, anti-foam,
and corrosion protection additives are also part of the oil formulation. Some formulations could include
detergents. The most relevant type of additives for wind turbines are presented in the following.
Antioxidants: These additives act as a protection against the effect of oxygen and high temperature.
These additives can also be used as corrosion protection additives. Antioxidants can contain aromatic
compounds, such as amines and phenols [ 37,38], which are typical for turbine oils and lubricating
greases [ 39]. Some tests with molybdenum mixed with zinc dithiophosphates (ZDDP) provided
good oxidation stability [ 40]. Molybdenum as an antioxidant additive has also been investigated [ 41].
This additive, in combination with an aromatic amine, has shown antioxidant properties in oxidation
tests [42]. Sulfur–phosphorus (S–P) compounds can act as antioxidants [43–46]. They can be used for
several base stocks and can be found in commercial oils [36].
Anti-wear (AW) and extreme-pressure (EP) additives: These types of additives are active during
mixed friction lubrication. They form a reaction layer to avoid or reduce direct metal-to-metal
contact. AW additives are effective for moderate loading and temperature in the contact. In contrast,
EP additives are effective under high loading. The complexity and variety of this type of additive are
large. One of the most common combinations for wind turbines are the S–P compounds. ZDDPs can
act not only as antioxidants but also as AW/EP additives [ 36]. The presence of ZDDP compounds in
wind turbine oils is not common, however, oils containing zinc–molybdenum compounds can also
have an effect as AW/EP additives and they can be found in some oil formulations [47].
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 4 of 24
Detergents: This type of additive removes deposits and aging products from the contact surface.
Detergents are typical for internal combustion engines. Calcium compounds, such as calcium
sulfonates, usually have detergent effects and are found in some oil formulations in wind turbines [ 47].
Due to their increased polarity, oils with high additive content can suffer from additive fallout due to
water ingress. The use of detergents then becomes necessary to reduce this effect [47].
Antifoam additives: This type of additive acts on the surface tension of the oil, leading to a faster
bursting of bubbles and avoiding excessive foaming. One example of antifoam additives is silicon
compounds [36]. Silicon antifoam additives can be found in wind turbine gearbox oil.
Corrosion protection additives: This type of additive protects the oil from water or acids by
neutralization. This additive also creates a layer to protect the metal surface. Some corrosion protection
additives can also act as antioxidants (metal deactivators).
The combination of different type of additives can also be detrimental to the lubrication.
Corrosion protection additives can affect AW/EP additives. Detergents can also affect the generation
of the protective ﬁlm in the surface of the contact. Therefore, the additive formulation and the type of
application are essential to understand oil degradation.
2.3. Oil Degradation
Oil degradation can be deﬁned as the negative changes in the oil properties until the oil
cannot fulﬁll its lubricating function anymore, which leads to wear and consequential damage.
This degradation is inﬂuenced by numerous parameters, such as temperature, loading, environmental
conditions, external contaminants, type of oil, additive package, etc. ICEs operate under high
temperatures and contact with oxygen is a catalyzer, leading to high oxidation rates. This type
of oil degradation with high temperature and oxygen can be described as thermal–oxidative
aging. Oil oxidation can occur due to auto-oxidation, metal catalysis and high temperature [ 48].
Oxidation leads to a thickening of the oil and subsequently to an increase in the viscosity.
High oxidation causes formation of sludge and varnish. Therefore, antioxidants are necessary to
slow down this process [ 27]. As wind turbines operate under a lower oil temperature than ICE
(under 80C), the gearbox oil oxidation process also occurs at a very lower rate. Oil degradation and
its inﬂuence on the oil load carrying capacity were studied by several scientists [ 49–51]. They performed
tests in mineral oil and PAO. The results indicate that the reduction of the remaining useful life of
the oil is doubled per 10C increment at temperatures higher than 60C. In this aging process,
the antioxidant additives play an essential role. In [ 36], a study showed that different synthetic base
stocks without antioxidants did not exhibit any difference in their performance in oxidation tests.
However, when additives were used, their performance showed different results with an increased
life span.
2.4. Oil Condition Monitoring
Oil sampling and subsequent ofﬂine analysis is the most widely applied method to provide
an indication about the oil condition. This method allows for determining several parameters,
such as viscosity, metallic elements, particles, additives, water content, etc. On-site devices and
online oil sensors are also used to monitor the oil and the gearbox condition in the wind turbine.
The gearbox condition is mostly monitored by means of inductive wear sensors giving an indication
of ferromagnetic and non-ferromagnetic particles in the oil [ 52]. Additionally, the cleanliness of the
oil can be monitored by means of optical particle counters [ 53]. As we are not directly assessing
the wear of the gearbox, particles and wear debris counting are outside the scope of this paper.
Relevant for this paper are oil quality and oil properties sensors. These types of sensors detect oil
degradation based on the hypothesis that the dielectric constant and the conductivity of the oil are
related to oil degradation [ 17,54–56]. As the conductivity of the contaminants, broken oil molecules,
or acids is different from the oil, these substances cause changes in the conductivity, which can
be measured to give an indication of oil degradation. Additionally, the additive changes can be
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 5 of 24
related to the changes in the dielectric constant, which provides information about additive depletion.
Some authors have shown the effectiveness of oil sensors to detect damage in bearings of wind
turbine gearboxes [ 18]. However, the accuracy of the sensors is highly dependent on the learning
phase, the interpretation of the data, and the robustness of the sensor. Conductivity and the dielectric
constant are temperature-dependent. This means that a temperature compensation algorithm is
required to isolate the changes related to additive depletion or oil degradation to a change in the
dielectric constant and the conductivity, respectively. The temperature compensation is carried out
during a learning phase. In this process, the sensor creates a curve to compensate for the variations
in the measurements due to temperature, in some cases, based on a polynomial approximation with
an operating temperature used as reference [ 57]. Therefore, this compensation is very oil-speciﬁc and
can induce some errors due to the approximation of the polynomial coefﬁcients.
3. Materials and Methods
In order to understand the degradation of wind turbine gearbox oil, two different oil aging
processes were analyzed for three different oil types: PAO, mineral oil, and PAG. The oils used for this
test campaign have a VG of 320 and S–P additives. The oils from the ﬁrst aging process were obtained
from accelerated aging on a FZG back-to-back test rig in the laboratory [ 58]. The oils from the second
aging process were obtained by extracting oil from wind turbines in operation. The oils obtained from
these two aging processes were analyzed with three different methods:
 Oil Sampling : Analysis of the measurements of the oil properties in the laboratory;
 Online Sensors : Analysis of the electrical properties of the oil in an oil sensor test bench;
 Micropitting tests : Analysis of the micropitting resistance of the oil by performing tests in a FZG
back-to-back test rig.
For all these analysis methods, fresh oil was tested and used as a reference. An additional method
to assess the degradation of oil was also carried out for a PAO with high additive content, named PAO
II. This analysis combined the results from the oil sampling in the laboratory with SCADA data of the
corresponding wind turbine to assess the effect of the operating conditions on the oil degradation.
Table 1 shows the methods of analysis and the oils used for each method.
Table 1. Methods of analysis.
Oil Type Oil Condition Oil Sampling Online Sensors Micropitting Tests SCADA-Data
PAO I Fresh x x x
Laboratory aging x x x
Field aging x x x
Mineral oil Fresh x x x
Laboratory x x x
Field aging x x x
PAG Fresh x x x
Laboratory aging x x x
ﬁeld aging x x x
PAO II ﬁeld aging x x
3.1. Oil Aging
The aging in the laboratory was carried out by the FZG. As stated in Section 2.3, one of the most
relevant parameters causing oil aging is temperature. Therefore, accelerated oil aging can be carried
out by intensifying the effect of temperature. The drawback of carrying out thermal oil aging is that
this process does not represent the same conditions as in the ﬁeld, where the operating temperature of
the wind turbines is clearly lower. Furthermore, thermal aging mostly activates antioxidants and does
not directly affect other types of additives, such as EP/AW additives. By comparing the changes in the
additives obtained from accelerated thermal aging and ﬁeld aging, the effect of temperature on the oil
can be assessed.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 6 of 24
3.1.1. Laboratory Aging
This approach consisted of an accelerated thermal aging process in a FZG back-to-back test rig.
The oil was aged in the slave gearbox of the test rig. The temperature of the tests was initially 120C.
However, the temperature was increased up to 135C for some tests.
The oil aging stages were determined based on the experience of the FZG of the Technical
University of Munich, Fraunhofer IWES and OELCHECK GmbH. Aging stage I corresponds to an oil
showing signs of degradation, but still suitable for further use. Aging stage II is a degraded oil that
was not suitable for further use. The parameters deﬁning each aging stage are summarized in Table 2.
The aging process was completed when two or more parameters in Table 2 were reached. As the
changes of these parameters do not follow any sequential behavior, the highest priority was given to
the total acid number (TAN), followed by the viscosity and, with lowest priority, by the antioxidant and
EP/AW additives (S–P compounds). The aging tests were carried out ﬁrst for PAO I then for mineral
oil and last for PAG. As the time to reach the corresponding aging stage was unknown, the FZG started
the test for each oil at 120C for aging stage II. Based on the duration of the test to reach this aging
stage, the test conditions for aging stage I could be redeﬁned if necessary.
Table 2. Parameters deﬁning the condition of aged oils.
Aging Stage Description Changes in TANChanges in Kinematic
ViscosityChanges in the Additive
Concentration
Aging Stage Iaged, but suitable for
further useMinimum increase
of 0.3 mgKOH/g+5% to +10%decrease of additive
concentration of >  10%
Aging Stage IIaged and deteriorated, not
suitable for further useMinimum increase
of 0.5 mgKOH/g+10% or moredecrease of additive
concentration of >  20%
3.1.2. Field Aging
Field aging is deﬁned as the operating time of a turbine ﬁlled with the oil under analysis without
oil change. The accessibility of the wind turbines was a limiting factor. For this reason, the duration
of the aging process of each oil is different. An oil sample of 20 L of PAO I, mineral oil, and PAG
could be obtained from three different wind turbines. This oil quantity was enough to carry out the
measurements with the sensors and the micropitting tests. For PAO II only a sample of 200 mL could
be obtained, which was only enough to carry out the laboratory analysis. The operating hours of each
oil sample from the ﬁeld are summarized in Table 3.
Table 3. Operating years of the oil samples extracted from the ﬁeld.
Oil Designation Wind T urbine Power Range (MW) Operating Time (h)
PAO I 1 to 2 76,548 (8.7 years)
Mineral oil 1 to 2 50,216 (5.7 years)
PAG 1 to 2 28,300 (3.2 years)
PAO II 3 to 4 30,904 (3.5 years)
It is important to note that the viscosity and additive content of the oils were analyzed after oil
ﬁlling to verify that the oil was not mixed with the rest of the ﬂushing oil. For PAO I, mineral oil,
and PAG, an oil change took place after taking the oil sample. Therefore, the operating time give
an indication of the duration of the oil change interval. We observe that the oil change intervals
varied between 3.2 and 8.7 years, which can be larger if we consider the time that the turbine was not
producing power.
3.2. Analysis Methods
In this paper we considered three methods of analysis. The ﬁrst method was the typical laboratory
analysis of oil samples, which is current practice in the wind industry. The second method consisted
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 7 of 24
in measuring the dielectric constant and the conductivity of the oil by means of sensors to obtain
information about oil degradation. The third method consisted of combining oil sampling with
SCADA-data from the respective wind turbine to correlate operating conditions with changes in the
oil properties. The three analysis methods are introduced in more detail in the following.
3.2.1. Oil Sample Analysis
This method provides detailed information about different oil parameters with high precision
and accuracy. In this study, we performed three different types of measurements:
 Viscosity and Viscosity index : Measurement of the kinematic viscosity at 40C and 100C with
the corresponding calculation of the viscosity index according to DIN 51659-3 [59].
 Element analysis : Determination of the element content in the oil based on inductively coupled
plasma (ICP) mass spectrometry according to DIN 51399-1 [ 60]. The elements covered by
this method are aluminum, barium, lead, boron, chromium, iron, potassium, calcium, copper,
magnesium, molybdenum, sodium, nickel, phosphorus, sulfur, silicon, zinc, and tin. We will
focus on phosphorus, sulfur, magnesium, molybdenum, and zinc, as these elements are contained
in the additives of the oil under analysis. Iron will also be included to observe possible increase of
chemically bounded iron during the wind turbine operation.
 Neutralization number or total acid number (TAN) : Determination of the oil oxidation,
the breakdown of oil additives, and increase in the acidity of the oil. This method determines
the required quantity of potassium hydroxide (KOH) to neutralize the oil by means of titration.
The measurements are carried out according to DIN ISO 6618 [61].
3.2.2. Online Sensor Measurements
An oil sensor test bench, which is described in [ 62], was used to carry out the measurements with
two oil properties sensors of the same manufacturer. The oil sensor test bench allows for analyzing the
detection capability and quality of different types of sensors. This is achieved due to the well-deﬁned
and reproducible operational characteristics of the test bench. The main goal is to measure the oil
properties for fresh and aged oils with reproducible test procedures. This test procedure is carried
out only for PAO I, mineral oil, and PAG, as the oil quantity of PAO II was not sufﬁcient for this test.
The oil sensor test bench consists of an oil circuit in which several sensors can be installed in horizontal
and vertical positions. Several adapters are used to install the sensors at different positions in the test
pipe. The test bench has a heat exchanger to control the oil temperature and a pump to control the
oil ﬂow. A contamination unit with a rotor–stator system for homogenization is used to artiﬁcially
contaminate the oil with particles or water if desired. The test bench is illustrated in Figure 1.
For this study, a stepped temperature proﬁle ranging from 40C to 80C with three ﬂow
rate steps at 5, 10, and 15 L/min was used to record the measurement of the sensors. The sensor
measurements were recorded inline during the temperature proﬁle with the changes in the ﬂow rate.
Two oil properties sensors as well as reference temperature and pressure sensors were installed in
the horizontal and in the vertical pipe of the test bench. The reference temperature sensors controlled
the temperature of the oil of the test bench ensuring a homogenous temperature in the pipes and
reservoir. The oil properties sensors used for this study measure temperature, water saturation,
dielectric constant, and conductivity. However, we will only focus on the dielectric constant and
conductivity measurements. As mentioned in Section 2.4, these parameters can give indication of
oil degradation.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 8 of 24
Figure 1. Layout of the oil sensor test bench at Fraunhofer IWES.
3.2.3. Micropitting Tests
This test procedure was carried out by the FZG. These tests were run only for PAO I, mineral
oil, and PAG, as not enough oil from PAO II was available. Micropitting refers to a type of mid-cycle
surface contact fatigue, in which, due to asperities and microcracks, shallow “pits” (up to 20 m)
are generated on the surface when the lubrication ﬁlm is not thick enough in comparison with the
roughness of the surface [ 63,64]. In order to assess the capability of the oil to withstand micropitting,
short tests according to DGMK 575 were carried out in a FZG back-to-back test rig [ 65]. The main
objective of these tests was to assess the micropitting resistance of oils aged in the laboratory and
in the ﬁeld. Additionally, the test was intended to show whether oil degradation due to depletion
of AW/EP-additives or oil oxidation could have an effect on the micropitting resistance of the oil.
It is important to note that the test method proposed in DGMK 575 serves only as a screening test to
classify the lubricant into different GFKT classes (low, medium, or high). Therefore, the effect of oil
degradation and the depletion of AW/EP additives on the micropitting resistance have to be very
signiﬁcant to be identiﬁed with GFKTs.
3.2.4. Combined Analysis from Oil Samples and Wind Turbine SCADA Data
As mentioned in Section 2.3, temperature can accelerate oil aging processes. However, the oil
in wind turbines experiences variable temperature due to the ﬂuctuating wind speed. Between two
samplings, a wind turbine operates in very different regimes: full load, partial load and idling.
These different operating conditions affect the loading of bearing and gears [ 2], which can involve
operation under mixed friction lubrication regime, high loading, or increased temperature. Therefore,
the rate of oil degradation and depletion of additives is also variable. In order to get insight into
the operating conditions of wind turbines, SCADA data from a 3.4 MW wind turbine with PAO II
were analyzed. Several oil samples taken in time intervals of 4–10 months were used to perform
a trend analysis. An analogy of the power bin concept is implemented to analyze power production
and gearbox temperature. The power bin concept is usually used to relate vibration measurements
to a deﬁned power bin. A description of this method can be found in [ 66]. As we are interested in
temperature, we attributed the temperature of the bearings and gearbox oil sump to bins of the active
power generated by the turbine. An additional trend analysis of oil samples from other turbines
with PAO I was carried out in order to better understand the degradation process of this type of oil.
Moreover, a statistical analysis of oil samples was carried out to assess the variability of the viscosity
for mineral oils and PAOs.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 9 of 24
4. Results
4.1. Oil Sample Analysis
The results of the oil sampling correspond to the measurements at the end of the laboratory and
ﬁeld aging. The criteria deﬁning the end of each test in the laboratory are described in Section 3.1.1.
It is important to note that the extreme temperature tests in the laboratory aim at understanding the
reaction of the oil under accelerated thermal stresses and do not represent the real operating conditions
in the ﬁeld.
4.1.1. Laboratory Aging
The results of the laboratory aging are summarized in Table 4. For PAO I and mineral oil, it was
necessary to increase the oil aging temperature to accelerate the aging process in order to limit the
duration of the test.
Table 4. Results of the laboratory aging.
Oil Designation Oil aging StageChanges in the
TANChanges in the
Kinematic ViscosityChanges in the
Additive Content
PAO IAging stage II
(882 h1)+0.54 mgKOH /g +6.5%P: 26%
S: 42%
PAO IAging stage I
(539 h, 135C)+0.41 mgKOH/g +10.5%P: 32%
S: 50%
Mineral oilAging stage II
(1080 h, 130C)+0.94 mgKOH/g +21%P: 76%
S: 24%
Mineral oilAging stage I
(912 h2)+0.35 mgKOH/g +10%P: 64%
S: 20%
PAGAging stage II
(314 h, 130C)+1.23 mgKOH/g +10% P , S: less than 10%
PAGAging stage I
(150 h3)+0.77 mgKOH/g +7% P , S: less than 15%
1Increase from 120C to 135C after approx. 500 h.2Increase from 120C to 135C after approx. 400 h.
3Decrease from 130C to 60C after approx. 70 h.
The test for aging stage II of PAO I started at 120C. However, the changes necessary to achieve stage
II were not achieved after approx. 500 h. Therefore, the temperature was increased from 120C to 135C.
The necessary changes in the TAN and viscosity were reached after 882 h. This process led to an increased
TAN of +0.54 mgKOH/g and a slight oil thickening, indicated by a viscosity increase of 6.5%.
In order to reduce the duration of the test to reach aging stage I of PAO I, this test was carried
out entirely at 135C. However, we observed a higher increase in the viscosity and a more signiﬁcant
additive depletion than for aging stage II in a shorter test time (539 h). This conﬁrms the acceleration
effect of temperature on oil degradation.
In the case of mineral oil, we observed that the oil required a longer time to achieve the values
deﬁning the oil aging stages. Similarly to PAO I, reaching stage II of mineral oil required an increase in
the temperature, this time to 130C. The values obtained in stage II of mineral oil were far over the
deﬁned thresholds. This is explained by the accelerated changes in the oil properties caused by the
increased temperature during the entire test (130C).
The aging stage I of mineral oil was also carried out initially at 120C and then increased to 135C
to avoid the same results obtained for stage I of PAO. The required viscosity of at least 5% was achieved,
but the required TAN of at least 0.3 mgKOH/kg required more time and the viscosity continued to
increase up to 10%. These tests show the effects of hightemperature, where acids are characterized by
an increase in the TAN and the formation of high molecular weight products resulted in an increased
viscosity [ 36]. Very interesting was the reaction of the PAG to the thermal aging. As the test duration
was deﬁned based on the previously observed behavior of PAO and mineral oil, the test started at
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 10 of 24
a high temperature of 130C. However, after taking a sample to verify the condition of the stage II
of PAG, the values indicated that the oil was aging much faster than expected, reaching a change of
1.23 mgKOH/kg and a viscosity change of 10% after only 314 h. Therefore, the time to verify the oil
condition during the test at 130C for stage I of PAG was reduced to 70 h. As not all the parameters
were reached, the temperature was reduced from 130C to 60C until the TAN and viscosity required
changes were achieved. The reduction of phosphorus and sulfur for the PAG was not as signiﬁcant as
for PAO I and mineral oil.
4.1.2. Field Aging
The results of the ﬁeld aging are summarized in Table 5.
Table 5. Results of the ﬁeld aging.
Oil DesignationOil aging
Duration (h)Changes in the TANChanges in the
Kinematic ViscosityChanges in the
Additive Content
PAO I76,548
(8.7 years)No signiﬁcant changes Less than 3%P: 40%
S: 27%
Mineral oil50,216
(5.7 years)No signiﬁcant changes Less than 3%P: 28%
S: 19%
PAG28,300
(3.2 years)+0.61 mgKOH/g Less than 3%P: 33%
S: 33%
PAO II30,904
(3.5 years) 1 mgKOH/g Less than 3% P , S:  5%
Table 5 shows that all ﬁeld-aged oils did not exhibit any signiﬁcant change in their viscosity.
Additionally, PAO I and the mineral oil did not show important variations in their TAN. In the case
of PAG, an increase in the TAN of 0.61 mgKOH was observed. In contrast to the laboratory aging,
the ﬁeld aging showed changes in the P–S additives. As mentioned in Section 2.2, these compounds
act as EP/AW additives and are reduced due to the operation of the wind turbine. A stable viscosity
is expected, as the oil temperature is low and oil thickening due to the formation of high molecular
weight products caused by thermal aging did not take place. PAG showed an increase in the TAN,
indicating a slightly increment in the acid content of the oil. As the PAG chemistry works very
differently from the other two oils, a better understanding of this behavior will require more testing.
In contrast to all other analyzed oils, the ﬁeld-aged PAO II showed a decrease in the TAN. The changes
in the TAN are also affected by the type of additive package. It is important to note that PAO II does
not only contain P–S compounds, but other types of additives, such as molybdenum, magnesium, zinc,
and calcium, and the changes in TAN can also be related to the changes of these additives.
4.2. Online Sensor Measurements
The test bench described in Section 3.2.2 has been used to measure the dielectric constant and the
conductivity of oils from the laboratory and ﬁeld aging, as well as of fresh oil. These measurements
were carried out for PAO I, mineral oil, and PAG, as shown in Table 1. Before starting the measurement
with the sensors, a learning phase for each oil was necessary, including the temperature range in
which the sensor will be operating. For these tests, the learning phase was carried out between 20C
and 80C at a constant ﬂow rate in the oil sensor test bench. This learning phase is necessary to
provide temperature-compensated values, as conductivity and dielectric constant are very sensitive to
temperature changes [ 17]. As the temperature in wind turbine gearboxes is variable, it is expected that
the sensor only relates the changes in the conductivity and the dielectric constant to oil degradation
and not to a temperature change. However, small changes in the conductivity occurred. Therefore,
the values provided for this analysis are the average values of conductivity measurements obtained
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 11 of 24
from the stepped proﬁle described in Section 3.2.2. The measurements of the dielectric constant
remained constant during the entire proﬁle.
4.2.1. Dielectric Constant Measurements
The measurements of the dielectric constant have shown very different results for the oils under
test. In the ﬁrst place, the results of PAO I were not very conclusive. The sensor did not exhibit any
change in the dielectric constant neither for the laboratory-aged oil nor for the ﬁeld-aged oil. In the
case of mineral oil, as observed in Figure 2a, the measurements of the dielectric constant of the oil only
showed an increase for aging stage II.
Figure 2. Measured dielectric constant of ( a) mineral oil and ( b) PAG oil during the stepped proﬁle
described in Section 3.2.2.
The measurements of the horizontal and vertical sensor showed a systematic deviation. In order
to verify that the position of the sensor in the pipes does not have an inﬂuence on the measurements,
we switched the positioning of the sensors and repeated the measurements. The new measurements
of each sensor were identical. After repeating the tests several times, we realized that this offset was
constant and did not change during the tests. According to the sensor manufacturer, the difference
in the measurements was due to the tolerance range used for the calibration procedure. Therefore,
this offset in the measurements is attributed to the sensor itself and does not represent any real change
in the oil condition.
During the measurements with PAG, no comparable measurements were obtained from both
sensors. The sensors provided very different results for fresh oil, as observed in Figure 2b. Furthermore,
the horizontal sensor did not provide any measurements during the test with the PAG from the ﬁeld.
Due to the poor comparability of the sensor measurements, it was not possible to obtain information
about additive degradation based on the dielectric constant measurements of the sensors.
4.2.2. Conductivity Measurements
During the learning phase with PAO I, which has a particularly low conductivity, we observed
that the sensor provided negative conductivity values. This is caused by the temperature
compensation/correction procedure: When the sensor measures a conductivity smaller than 1 nS/m ,
the temperature compensation curve cannot be properly generated, as the sensor accuracy is
0.5 nS/m full scale. This means that the error does not change with the measured value. Therefore,
for large conductivity measurements during the learning phase, for example 50 nS/m, the value used
for compensation after the learning phase will be between 49.5 and 50.5 nS/m. However, in the case of
a measurement of 0.5 nS/m, the value used for compensation could be between 0 and 1 nS/m. For this
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 12 of 24
reason, the values used to compensate for the conductivity measurements could lead to a negative
number for very low conductivity values.
During the learning phase with PAG, the sensor was unable to generate a compensation curve.
After external measurements of the conductivity of the oil, it was conﬁrmed that the PAG had
a conductivity larger than 100 nS/m, which is beyond the upper limit of the sensor measurement range.
Plausible conductivity measurements could only be obtained for mineral oil. These measurements are
illustrated in Figure 3.
We observed that the conductivity increased for the two aging stages of the mineral oil.
This indicates that increased acid content and broken molecules reﬂected by the increased viscosity
and TAN of the oil lead to a change in the conductivity measurements. As the oil from the ﬁeld did not
have signiﬁcant changes in TAN or viscosity, only a slight increase in the conductivity was observed.
The offset of the sensor in the vertical pipe was also observed in this test, which is related to the
calibration process of the sensor itself, as explained in Section 4.2.1.
Figure 3. Conductivity measurements of fresh and aged mineral oil.
The results of the testing with the oil properties sensors showed that the measurement range of
the sensor and the accuracy are not sufﬁcient. This is caused by the large variability of the oil electrical
properties, as shown bythe very low conductivity of PAO I and the very high conductivity of PAG.
Moreover, the robustness of the sensor is limited due to the compensation algorithm. The sensor is very
sensitive to changes in the conductivity, even after temperature compensation. In [ 67], three oil sensors
measuring dielectric constant and two measuring conductivity were tested with a low-viscosity gear
oil. The results of the tests with these sensors showed that, even after temperature compensation,
the sensors also exhibited variation in the conductivity measurements. These measurements with fresh
oil support the results obtained during this study, as we also observed changes in the conductivity
measurements during the stepped temperature proﬁle with fresh oil. Additionally, the sensors showed
considerable difference in the absolute values of their conductivity measurements. During the tests
carried out in [ 67], measurements with aged oil from oxidation test were performed. In these tests
a conductivity increase was also observed with increased aging hours. It is important to note that the
oil used for the oxidation tests in [ 67] was also a mineral oil. This conﬁrms that oil sensors can correlate
the oxidation and the thermal aging with a change in the conductivity for oils with a mineral base stock.
However, the absolute conductivity values can only be considered a qualitative degradation indicator,
as a good accuracy and repeatability of the measurements with different sensor manufactures could
not be conﬁrmed. As a result, the robustness of the sensors needs to be improved by implementing
more appropriate compensation algorithms to deal with operation outside the temperature used for
the learning phase and changes in the oil properties due to reﬁlls or oil changes.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 13 of 24
4.3. Micropitting Tests
As shown in Table 1, these tests were carried out for all fresh, laboratory, and ﬁeld-aged samples
of PAO I, mineral oil, and PAG. The results of the tests demonstrated that all the oils exhibited a high
micropitting resistance, achieving a GFTK-class larger than 9. Each oil was tested two times, once per
ﬂank side. The average proﬁle deviation of the ﬂank (ffm) from the test with fresh oil, laboratory-,
and ﬁeld-aged samples as a function of the load stage is illustrated for PAO I in Figure 4. Similar results
were obtained for all fresh oils and all aging stages. The dotted red line denotes the maximum allowed
deviation of 7.5 m at load stage 9. After a test with a lubricant, in which a lower deviation than
7.5m was measured, the lubricantcan be classiﬁed with GFTK-class larger than 9, implying high
micropitting resistance. It is important to note that this test method can only be seen as a screening
test. This means that the changes in the micropitting resistance have to be very sharp to be seen
in the proﬁle deviation. As the test results indicate, it was not possible to correlate the changes in
the EP/AW additives due to the oil aging in the laboratory and in the ﬁeld with a change in the
micropitting resistance (Section 3.2.3).
Figure 4. Micropitting test results for PAO: ( a) fresh oil; ( b) oil aging stage I; ( c) oil aging stage II;
(d) oil from the ﬁeld.
4.4. Combined Analysis from Oil Samples and Wind Turbine SCADA Data
SCADA data from a 3.4 MW wind turbine with PAO II were analyzed to obtain information
about the changes in the oil properties in respect to the operating conditions of the wind turbine.
The operating time during three calendar years was analyzed. This means that only positive active
power bins were considered (P act> 0). The operating time of the turbine divided in 17 active power
bins of 200 kW is illustrated in Figure 5.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 14 of 24
Figure 5. Power bins of 200 kW for the total operating time of the wind turbine with PAO II.
As shown in Figure 5, this turbine operated mostly in partial load during the three calendar years
considered in this analysis. During approx. 60% of the operating time throughout the three calendar
years, the turbine produced power below 1000 kW and around 35% below 400 kW. Oil samples were
collected during the operation of the wind turbine and analyzed in the laboratory with the methods
described in Section 3.2.1. The viscosity change, TAN, additive, and iron content are shown in Figure 6.
It is worth noting that the operating hours of the turbine (P act> 0), as shown in Table 5, do not
correspond to the calendar time, as the wind turbine produces power only after achieving the cut-in
wind speed and the turbine is also turned down during maintenance activities. Therefore, the calendar
time can be larger than the operating time.
Figure 6. Sampling results of PAO II during the period of analysis. ( a) Changes in the kinematic
viscosity; ( b) TAN; ( c) additive content measured by the ICP method; ( d) iron content measured by the
ICP method.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 15 of 24
We observed that the viscosity did not show any signiﬁcant change. The measured values vary
between 1%. This variation is associated with the accuracy of the method and is not related to the
operating condition of the turbine or any tribological process. TAN shows a decrease during the period
of analysis. TAN is affected by the additives and oil oxidation. The decrease in TAN is caused by
the slight decrease of additives. In some cases a slight increase from one sample to the other can be
observed. This can have several reasons. One of them is that a small amount of oil (20–50 L) might have
been poured into the gearbox during service, providing fresh additives. Another reason can be the
sampling point and the difference in the concentration of the additives in the sample. Sulfur showed
higher variations than the other elements. Even if the ICP method provides a good accuracy for most
of the elements, in the case of sulfur, the method has a larger variability. The characteristic wavelength
of sulfur obtained to perform the ICP measurements is similar to that of daylight. This similarity
in the characteristic wavelength can cause a larger uncertainty in the measurements than for other
elements. Due to the variability in the sulfur measurements, changes in the sulfur content should only
be considered an auxiliary measurement to perform qualitative analyses.
The measurements of the iron content show a progressive increase. It is important to note that
this measurement is related to dissolved iron, which is chemically bounded to the oil. The iron content
does not give an indication of abrasion wear characterized by the production of bigger particles,
which cannot be detected by the ICP method. However, if the measured iron is not ferromagnetic,
the iron content gives an indication of ferrous oxides typical for corrosion products. The amount of
ferromagnetic iron can be quantiﬁed by the particle quantiﬁer (PQ) index, which in this study was
very low and therefore not taken into consideration. The particle size of chemically bounded iron
is typically smaller than 5 m. Therefore, the iron content is unlikely to be removed by ﬁltration.
Consequently, a reduction of this value is usually achieved only by changing the oil or by pouring
fresh oil into the gearbox. Thus, a signiﬁcant decrease in the iron content also provides information
about a possible oil change or reﬁll, so an increase of the additives concentration can be attributed to
one of those possibilities. In this particular case, a reﬁll does not appear to be the reason behind the
increase in the additive measurements, as the iron content increased constantly. One possible reason
could be the different concentration of additives in the gearbox. In order to relate the changes in the
oil and the operating condition of the wind turbine, the temperature power functions of one gearbox
bearing and the gearbox oil sump during the ﬁrst oil-sampling interval of approx. six months is shown
in Figure 7.
Figure 7. Gearbox temperature power functions during the ﬁrst oil sampling interval of approx. six
months. ( a) Bearing temperature as a function of the active power (P act> 0); ( b) gearbox oil sump
temperature as a function of the active power (P act> 0).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 16 of 24
The plots in Figure 7 show that a high temperature of the bearing and the gearbox oil sump is also
achieved at power lower than 1000 kW and not only at high power production. The temperaturepower
analysis was also carried out for other sampling intervals showing similar behavior. This indicates
that for partial load the bearings also have a high temperature. Mixed lubricating conditions and
loading of bearings and gears activate additives; therefore, a reduction in the additives during this
period is expected. As additives deplete, the TAN decreases, as clearly observed in sampling interval 1
in Figure 6b,c. For the next sampling intervals the number of operating hours was variable, but also
showing high temperature at low power. As the operating hours of each interval were different, it was
not expected to obtain a linear decrease of the additives or TAN. However, we observed that even
if sampling interval 2 was longer, TAN and the additives decreased more slowly than in intervals 1
and 3. This is explained by the fact that the turbine operated with a higher power range and higher
temperature in intervals 1 and 3, as shown in Table 6. This analysis shows that the higher changes
in the additives correlate with the intervals with higher average power, higher bearing temperature,
and higher wind speed.
We observed that under these operating conditions and after almost four years, the oil showed
only slight signs of degradation and was suitable for further use. Therefore, no detrimental effects on
the gearbox due to oil degradation were expected in this particular case. As this wind turbine operated
mostly at partial load, it will be meaningful to assess the oil properties’ changes due to combined high
temperature and high loads at full power or the effect of extreme temperatures (cold/hot environment)
by including more turbines in a similar analysis. However, the oil sampling laboratory results
together with SCADA data are mostly conﬁdential and no further data were available to perform
an extended analysis.
Table 6. Average power, bearing temperature, and wind speed during the ﬁrst three sampling intervals.
Power (kW) Bearing Temperature (C) Wind Speed (m/s)
Sampling interval 1 881 61.9 5.7
Sampling interval 2 787 60.6 5.4
Sampling interval 3 1094 64.8 6.2
Even if the analysis with PAO II provided some indications of oil degradation related to the
operating conditions of the wind turbine, oils have diverse additive packages that can react differently.
In order to better understand the changes in the oil parameters and observe similarities with other
oils with the same base stock but a different additive package, a trend analysis was carried out for
14 wind turbines ﬁlled with PAO I. For the turbines under analysis, no oil change has taken place.
However, the possibility of small reﬁlls cannot be totally discarded, as these minor reﬁlls are not
always documented. The turbines under analysis are divided into two groups:
 four-year group: This group corresponds to seven turbines with an operating time around four
years with two different ranges of the rated power.
 eight-year group: This group corresponds to seven turbines with an operating time around
eight years.
The operating years and the power range of each turbine of the four-year group are shown in
Table 7. The results of the trend analysis are shown in Figure 8.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 17 of 24
Table 7. Turbine data of the four-year group for trend analysis with PAO I.
T urbine Designation Operating Time (years) Power Range (MW)
4 years-WT1 4.0 3 to 4
4 years-WT2 3.7 3 to 4
4 years-WT3 3.1 3 to 4
4 years-WT4 3.1 3 to 4
4 years-WT5 4.0 3 to 4
4 years-WT6 4.0 2 to 3
4 years-WT7 4.9 2 to 3
As illustrated in Figure 8, the viscosity tends to decrease at the beginning of the period of analysis.
It is important to note that gearboxes are usually ﬁlled with a lower-viscosity ﬂuid to be cleaned out.
The rest of this ﬂuid could cause this minimal change in the viscosity. After this ﬁrst slight decrease,
the viscosity remains almost constant within the accuracy of the method around 1%. Similar behavior
is observed in the phosphorus content. However, the measured values tend to oscillate and after the
end of the analysis period no signiﬁcant decrease is observed. Concerning the iron content, we observe
a progressive increase of chemically bounded iron. The viscosity behavior is similar to that of the
turbine ﬁlled with PAO II. In contrast to PAO II, the TAN did not show any signiﬁcant change and is
therefore not illustrated in Figure 8. It is important to note that four-year and eight-year designations
are related the operating time (active power larger than zero) and not to the calendar time. Therefore,
there could be turbines with a longer calendar time than the operating time, as the turbine did not
operate continuously throughout the years under analysis.
The operating years and the power range of each turbine of the eight-year group are shown in
Table 8. The results of the trend analysis are shown in Figure 9.
Figure 8. Trend analysis for the four-year turbine group with PAO I. ( a) Changes in the kinematic
viscosity; ( b) changes in the phosphorus content measured by the ICP method; ( c) iron content
measured by the ICP method.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 18 of 24
Figure 9. Trend analysis for the eight-year turbine group with PAO I. ( a) Changes in the kinematic
viscosity; ( b) changes in the phosphorus content measured by the ICP method; ( c) iron content
measured by the ICP method.
The viscosity tends to decrease at the beginning of the period of analysis, as observed for the
four-year analysis. As discussed before, the rest of the ﬂushing oil could cause this minimal change in
the viscosity. After this ﬁrst slight decrease, the viscosity values remain almost constant with a variation
smaller than 5%. The phosphorus content shows a general trend to decrease. As mentioned previously,
the values of phosphorus can vary due to small reﬁlls or due to the variation of the concentration of the
sample compared to the bulk concentration in the gearbox. Concerning the iron content, we observe
a progressive increase of chemically bounded iron, as expected from long normal operation. The TAN
did not show any clear trend and no signs of degradation could be seen directly.
This analysis also pointed out that the oil viscosity did not change signiﬁcantly, even after eight
years of operation. In order to verify that the oil viscosity remains relatively constant in wind turbine
gearboxes, the viscosity measurements of approx. 200,000 oil samples from the last 10 years were
analyzed. As the amount of samples from PAG and the operating time of turbines with this oil
were small compared to the other oils, we did not consider PAG for this analysis. Table 9 shows
the amount of samples used for the calculation of the oil viscosity at 40C and its corresponding
standard deviation.
Table 8. Turbine data of the eight-year group for trend analysis with PAO I.
T urbine Name Operating Time (years) Power Range (MW)
8 years-WT8 6.1 2 to 3
8 years-WT9 6.1 2 to 3
8 years-WT10 9.9 2 to 3
8 years-WT11 10.2 2 to 3
8 years-WT12 6.7 2 to 3
8 years-WT13 9.0 2 to 3
8 years-WT14 6.8 2 to 3
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 19 of 24
Table 9. Mean and standard deviation of the viscosity at 40C from a database of oil samples.
Oil Designation Approx. Number of Samples Mean Viscosity at 40C (mm2/s) Standard Deviation (mm2/s)
PAO I 76,000 326.2 11.7
PAO II 40,000 325.8 8.6
PAO III 7500 319.9 9.9
Mineral oil 31,000 321 9.1
Mineral oil II 44,000 319.3 8.8
The results show a standard deviation corresponding to less than 4% of the mean viscosity for all
oils. The samples exhibited a normal distribution, as shown in Figure 10. Therefore, we can state that
95% of the samples have a variation in viscosity lower than 10% of the mean viscosity. Hence, 95% of
the oils under analysis have a viscosity within the limits of the VG 320. This conﬁrms that viscosity in
wind turbine gearboxes does not exhibit signiﬁcant changes during normal operation.
Figure 10. Distribution of the kinematic viscosity at 40C of PAO III.
5. Discussion
5.1. Oil Aging in the Laboratory and in the Field
Based on the results of the laboratory oil aging process, we conﬁrmed that oil thickening due to
thermal aging took place for all the oils, as can be seen by an increased viscosity of the oil. An increase
in the TAN also indicated oil oxidation, as we expected. The behavior of the PAG showed an increase
in the TAN, but few changes in the S–P additives. This indicates a difference in the antioxidant content
of the PAG. We also observed that the S–P additives in the mineral oil and PAO are highly reduced.
According to the review in Section 2.1, S–P could also act as an antioxidant; however, for PAG this was
not the case.
The ﬁeld aging showed, as expected, insigniﬁcant changes in the viscosity of the oil and the TAN.
A reduction of the TAN for the PAO II was observed, which can be attributed to the slight additive
depletion. PAG showed an increase in the TAN, with no increase in the viscosity. However, the changes
in the TAN cannot be explained based on this study, as the operating conditions of the wind turbine
with the PAG are unknown.
5.2. Combined Analysis from Oil Samples and Wind Turbine SCADA Data
The combined analysis of oil sampling with SCADA data showed that the wind turbine under
analysis was operating with high gearbox bearings temperatures at a very low power level. During the
operation of the turbine, zinc, molybdenum and phosphorus decreased by around 5%. Even if 5%
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 20 of 24
does not seem that signiﬁcant, PAO II is an oil with high content of additives compared with PAO I.
For example, in PAO II, molybdenum has a concentration around 1200 ppm and phosphorus around
1500 ppm, while PAO I has no molybdenum and the phosphorus concentration lies around 400 ppm.
Therefore, 5% phosphorus in PAO II corresponds to approx. 75 ppm, while for PAO I, 5% corresponds
to only 20 ppm. This slight degradation in PAO II is reﬂected in the TAN, which showed a progressive
decrease. To obtain more information about the changes in the oil properties, samples from PAO I were
analyzed in trend, without oil change. The results of the analysis showed that the TAN measurements
were not providing a clear trend of oil aging; however, the phosphorus content decreased up to 30%.
For all the samples under analysis, the iron content showed a progressive increase. This value is a good
indicator of the production of ferrous oxides and its presence in the oil can only be strongly affected by
an oil change. Therefore, iron content gives a good indication of the degradation process of the gearbox
and the oil. It is important to note that the turbine under analysis did not exhibit any problems with
increased water content, oil cleanliness, mix of lubricants, or extreme damage of bearings or gears.
These factors directly affect the oil and reduce the life span of bearings. Other elements like copper or
zinc and the PQ index were not considered in this study. However, these parameters can also provide
valuable information about wear and corrosion processes in the gearbox and should also be monitored.
A statistical analysis was performed to determine if the viscosity is signiﬁcantly affected by the
operation of the wind turbine. After the analysis of almost 200,000 samples, we observed that around
95% of the viscosity measurements for PAO and mineral oil remained within the limits of the VG 320.
6. Conclusions
Several tests were carried out to analyze the degradation of wind turbine gearbox oils. Oil samples,
oil sensor measurements, and micropitting tests were carried out on fresh and aged oils of different
base stocks. Oil sampling provided reliable information about viscosity, TAN, and additives. The TAN
was a degradation indicator only under strong thermal aging of the oil. Concerning the oils from the
ﬁeld, the TAN only decreased for one oil with high content of additives (PAO II) due to the depletion of
these additives. PAG showed very different behavior as it has a very different composition compared
to PAO and mineral oil. The element analysis provided evidence of additive depletion, mainly based
on phosphorus, molybdenum, zinc, and magnesium. Depletion of sulfur was difﬁcult to observe due
to the higher uncertainty in the measurements. The iron content was shown to be a reliable indicator
related to production of ferrous oxides and can be easily monitored with a trend analysis. The viscosity
of the oils from the ﬁeld did not show any signiﬁcant change during the operation of the wind turbine.
This result was veriﬁed with approx. 200,000 samples of mineral oil and PAOs, which conﬁrmed
that approx. 95% of the analyzed samples had a viscosity within the acceptable range of the VG
320. Further studies correlating the effect of extreme ambient temperature, high power production,
and loading of wind turbines with changes in the oil properties will contribute to determining further
oil degradation drivers for wind turbine gearboxes.
The results of the oil sensor testing indicated that the oil sensors considered have a limited
capability to identify oil aging and depletion of additives. However, there are other sensors in
the market with higher resolutions and different features, which may show different results. As the
applicability of the sensor depends on the oil type, its measurement range, and its accuracy, further tests
are required to validate the sensors for this type of application.
The micropitting tests showed that all the oils in all aging stages had very high micropitting
resistance. Based on these screening tests, we could not relate the depletion of AW/EP additives to
signiﬁcant changes in the micropitting resistance.
Based on the results of this study, we can state that oil sampling is still a very valuable method
for monitoring the oil condition. The conductivity and dielectric constant measurements carried out
in this study provided limited information on oil degradation and did not exhibit direct advantages
compared to oil sampling. Even if oil sensors provide continuous measurements, in contrast to oil
sampling, this approach implies more costs and the accuracy of the sensors is not always validated with
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 21 of 24
standardized procedures. The added value of OCM lies in its capability to reliably detect unexpected
faults in the gearbox and not only negative changes in the oil properties. This means that the sensors
and oil sampling should provide support for the currently implemented vibration-based CMS, acting as
a complement in an integrated approach. Furthermore, oil sensors should also be robust enough to
operate continuously for years, providing reliable measurements, and should be able to associate
measurement signals with negative changes in the oil properties and gearbox faults. Numerous sensor
manufacturers and new sensor technologies are available and standardized test procedures will
facilitate the validation and integration of oil sensors in the current CMS of wind turbines.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, D.C.; Methodology, D.C. and J.W.; Validation, D.C.; Formal Analysis,
D.C. and J.W.; Investigation and literature review, D.C.; Resources, D.C. and J.W.; Data Curation, D.C.;
Writing-Original Draft and Preparation, D.C.; Writing-Review & Editing, D.C. and J.W.; Visualization, D.C.;
Supervision, D.C. and J.W.; Project Administration, D.C. and J.W.; Funding Acquisition, D.C. and J.W.
Acknowledgments: This project was funded by the German Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy under
grant number 325516. The authors acknowledge OELCHECK GmbH for provision of data for the elaboration of
this publication and Daniel Rossow for his support with the statistical analysis. The Fraunhofer Institute for Wind
Energy Systems (IWES) is kindly acknowledged for covering the costs to publish in open access.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Acronyms
AW Anti-wear
CM Condition Monitoring
CM Condition Monitoring System
DIN German Institute for Standardization
DGMK German Society for Petroleum and Coal Science and Technology
EP Extreme Pressure
FZG Gear Research Centre
GFKT Micropitting Short Test
ICP Inductively Coupled Plasma
ICE Internal Combustion Engines
IEC International Electrotechnical Commission
KOH Potassium Hydroxide
OCM Oil Condition Monitoring
O&M Operation and Maintenance
PAG Poly-alkylene-glycol
PAO Poly-alpha-oleﬁn
PQ Particle Quantiﬁer
SCADA Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
TAN Total Acid Number
VG Viscosity Grade
VI Viscosity Index
WEC White Etching Cracks
ZDDP Zinc Dithiophosphates
References
1. Wind Europe. Wind in Power—2016 European Statistics ; Wind Europe: Brussels, Belgium, 2017.
2. Link, H.; LaCava, W.; van Dam, J.; McNiff, B.; Sheng, S.; Wallen, R.; McDade, M.; Lambert, S.; Butterﬁeld, S.;
Oyague, F. Gearbox Reliability Collaborative Project Report: Findings from Phase 1 and Phase 2 Testing ;
National Renewable Energy Laboratory NREL: Golden, CO, USA, 2011.
3. Sheng, S. Wind Turbine Gearbox Condition Monitoring Round Robin Study—Vibration Analysis ;
National Renewable Energy Laboratory: Golden, CO, USA, 2012.
4. Carrol, J.; McDonald, A.; McMillan, D. Failure rate, repair time and unscheduled O&M cost analysis of
offshore wind turbines. Wind Energy 2015 ,19, 1107–1119.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 22 of 24
5. Argonne National Laboratory. Bearing Reliability—White Etching Cracks (WEC). In Proceedings of the
Gearbox Reliability Collaborative Annual Meeting (NREL), Golden, CO, USA, 10–12 February 2014.
6. Du Crehu, A.R. Tribological Analysis of White Etching Crack (WEC) Failures in Rolling Element Bearings.
Mechanics of Materials ; INSA de Lyon: Lyon, France, 2014.
7. Lai, J.; Stadler, K. Investigation on the mechanisms of white etching crack (WEC) formation in rolling
contact fatigue and identiﬁcation of a root cause for bearing premature failure. Wear 2016 ,364–365 , 244–256.
[CrossRef]
8. Evans, M.-H. An updated review: White etching cracks (WECs) and axial cracks in wind turbine gearbox
bearings. Mater. Sci. Technol. 2016 ,32, 1133–1169. [CrossRef]
9. Surborg, H. Einﬂuss von Grundölen und Additiven auf die Bildung von WEC in Wälzlagern ;
Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg: Magdeburg, Germany, 2014.
10. Wilkinson, M.; Darnell, B.; van Delft, T.; Harman, K. Comparision of methods for wind turbine condition
monitoring with SCADA data. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2014 ,8, 390–397. [CrossRef]
11. Bangalore, P .; Patriksson, M. Analysis of SCADA data for early fault detection, with application to the
maintenance management of wind turbines. Renew. Energy 2018 ,115, 521–532. [CrossRef]
12. Odgaard, F.; Stoustrup, J.; Kinnaert, M. Fault-Tolerant Control of Wind Turbines: A Benchmark Model.
IEEE Trans. Control Syst. Technol. 2013 ,4, 21. [CrossRef]
13. Tabatabaeipour, M.; Odgaard, P .; Bak, T.; Stoustrup, J. Fault Detection of Wind Turbines with Uncertain
Parameters: A Set-Membership Approach. Energies 2012 ,5, 2424–2448. [CrossRef]
14. Odgaard, P .; Stoustrup, J. A Benchmark Evaluation of Fault Tolerant Wind Turbine Control Concepts.
IEEE Trans. Control Syst. Technol. 2015 ,23, 1221–1228. [CrossRef]
15. Badihi, H.; Zhang, Y.; Hong, H. Wind Turbine Fault Diagnosis and Fault-Tolerant Torque Load Control
Against Actuator Faults. IEEE Trans. Control Syst. Technol. 2015 ,23, 1351–1372. [CrossRef]
16. Sheng, S. Monitoring of Wind Turbine Gearboxes Condition through Oil and Wear Debris Analysis:
A Full-Scale Testing Perspective. Tribol. Trans. 2016 ,59, 149–162. [CrossRef]
17. Mauntz, M. Entwicklung eines Sensorsystems zur Kontinuierlichen Ölqualitätsmessung und Verschleißidentiﬁcation
in Getrieben und Anderen Aggregaten ; Universität Siegen: Siegen, Germany, 2012.
18. Mauntz, M.; Peuser, J. Condition Based Maintenance of Wind Turbines by 24/7 Monitoring of Oil Quality and
Additve Consumption: Identiﬁcation of Critical Operating Conditions and Determination of the Next Oil Change ;
IOP Publishing: Aachen, Germany, 2017.
19. Hamilton, A.; Quail, F. Detailed State of the Art Review for the Different On-Line/In-Line Oil Analysis
Techniques in Context of Wind Turbine Gearboxes. J. Tribol. 2011 ,133, 044001. [CrossRef]
20. GL Renewables Certiﬁcation. Guideline for the Certiﬁcation of Condition Monitoring Systems for Wind turbines ;
GL Renewables Certiﬁcation: Hamburg, Germany, 2013.
21. Coronado, D.; Fischer, K. Condition Monitoring of Wind Turbines: State of the Art, User Experience and
Recommendations ; VGB: Hanover, Germany, 2015.
22. Yang, W.; Tavner, P .; Crabtree, C.; Feng, Y.; Qiu, Y. Wind turbine condition monitoring: Technical and
commercial challenges. Wind Energy 2014 ,17, 673–693. [CrossRef]
23. Marquez, F.G.; Tobias, A.M.; P érez, J.P .; Papaelias, M. Condition monitoring of wind turbines: Techniques and
methods. Renew. Energy 2012 ,46, 169–178. [CrossRef]
24. Nie, M.; Wang, L. Review of condition monitoring and fault diagnosis technologies for wind turbine gearbox.
Procedia CIRP 2013 ,287–290 , 11. [CrossRef]
25. T chakoua, P .; Wamkeue, R.; Ouhrouche, M.; Slaoui-Hasnaou, F.; Tameghe, T.; Ekemb, G. Wind Turbine Condition
Monitoring: State-of-the-Art Review, New Trends, and Future Challenges. Energies 2014 ,7, 2595–2630. [CrossRef]
26. Harrington, K.; Legay, S.; Russo, R. Think Synthetic Lubricants for Improved Wind Turbine Availability.
2013. Available online: https://www.windpowerengineering.com/lubricants/think-synthetic-lubricants-
improved-wind-turbine-availability/ (accessed on 10 February 2018).
27. Ranney, W. Synthetic Oils and Additives for Lubricants—Advances Since 1977 ; Noyes Data Corporation:
Park Ridge, NJ, USA, 1980.
28. Stachowiak, G.W.; Batchelor, A.W. Lubricants and their composition. In Engineering Tribology ; Elsevier:
New York, NY, USA, 2005; pp. 51–98.
29. Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN). DIN 51517-3: Schmierstoffe—Schmieröle—Teil 3: Schmieröle CLP ,
Mindestanforderungen ; Beuth: Berlin, Germany, 2014.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 23 of 24
30. International Organization for Standardization (ISO). IEC 61400-4: Design Requirements for Wind Turbine
Gearboxes ; International Organization for Standardization (ISO): Geneva, Switzerland, 2012.
31. Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN); International Organization for Standardization (ISO). DIN ISO
14635-1: Zahnräder-FZG-Prüfverfahren-Teil 1: FZG-Prüfverfahren A/8,3/90 zur Bestimmung der Fresstragfähigkeit
von Schmierölen ; Beuth: Berlin, Germany, 2007.
32. Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN); International Organization for Standardization (ISO). DIN 51819-1:
Prüfung von Schmierstoffen-Mechanisch-dynamische Prüfung auf dem Wälzlagerschmierstoff-Prüfgerät FE8-Teil 1:
Allgemeine Arbeitsgrundlagen ; Beuth: Berlin, Germany, 2016.
33. American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM). ASTM D2893: Standard Test Method for Oxidation
Characteristics of Extreme-Pressure Lubrication Oils ; ASTM: West Conshohocken, PA, USA, 2014.
34. Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN); International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
DIN ISO 7120: Mineralölerzeugnisse und Schmierstoffe-Mineralöle und Andere Flüssigkeiten-Bestimmung der
Korrosionsschutzeigenschaften in Gegenwart von Wasser ; Beuth: Berlin, Germany, 2000.
35. Deutsches Institut für Norming (DIN); International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO).
Elastomere-Standard-Referenz-Elastomere (SREs) zur Charakterisierung des Verhaltens von Flüssigkeiten auf
Elastomere ; Beuth: Berlin, Germany, 2015.
36. Rudnick, L. Lubricant Additives: Chemistry and Applications ; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, USA, 2017;
ISBN 9781498731720.
37. Braid, M. Phenolic Antioxidants and Lubricants Containing Same. U.S. Patent 4,551,259, 5 November 1985.
38. Bandlish, B.; Loveless, F.; Nudenberg, W. Amino Compounds and Use of Amino Compounds as Antioxidants
in Lubricating Oils. Europe Patent EP0022281A1, 14 January 1981.
39. Rogers, T. Reﬁned Viscous Hydrocarbon Oil. U.S. Patent 1,774,845, 2 September 1930.
40. Levine, S.; Schlicht, R.; Chafetz, H.; Whiteman, J. Molybdenum Derivatives and Lubricants Containing Same.
U.S. Patent 4,428,848, 31 January 1984.
41. De Vries, L.; King, J. Process of Preparing Molybdenum Complexes, the Complexes So-Produced and
Lubricants Containing the Same. U.S. Patent 4,265,773, 21 April 1981.
42. De Vries, L.; King, J. Antioxidant Combinations of Molybdenum Complexes and Aromatic Amine
Compounds. U.S. Patent 4,370,246, 25 January 1983.
43. Rutehrford, J.; Miller, R. Compounded Oil. U.S. Patent 2252984, 19 August 1941.
44. Rutherford, J. Compounded Oil. U.S. Patent 2252985, 19 August 1941.
45. Asseff, P . Lubricant. U.S. Patent 2261047, 28 October 1941.
46. Cook, E.; Thomas, W. Crankcase Lubricant and Chemical Compound Therefore. U.S. Patent 2,342,572,
22 February 1944.
47. Vasiliw, T. Extending Gear Oil Performance: With the Next-Generation Optigear Synthetic X 320,
Castrol Industrial has Developed a Superior Synthetic Lubricant for Wind Turbines. September 2011.
Available online: http://www.windsystemsmag.com/article/detail/286/extending-gear-oil-performance-
(accessed on 17 February 2018).
48. Aguilar, G.; Mazzamaro, G.; Rasberger, M. Oxidative degradation and stabilisation of mineral oil-based
lubricants. In Chemistry and Technology of Lubricants ; Springer: London, UK, 2009; pp. 107–152.
49. Weiß, R. Prüfung der Ölleistungfähigkeit als Funktion der Öllebensdauer unter Berücksichtigung der Freß- und
Grübchentragfähigkeit ; Forschungsvereinigung Antriebstechnik e.V .: Frankfurt, Germany, 1994.
50. Bayerdörfer, I.; Oster, P .; Höhn, B.-R. Einﬂuss von betriebsbedingten Schmierstoffveränderungen auf die
Flankentragfähigkeit einsatzgehärteter Stirnräder ; Technical University of Munich: Munich, Germany, 2004.
51. Krieger, H. Alterung von Schmierstoffen im Zahnradprüfstand und in Praxisgetrieben ; Technical University of
Munich: Munich, Germany, 2004.
52. Toms, A. Oil debris monitoring: Part of an effective gearbox monitoring strategy. In Proceedings of the 69th
STLE Annual Meeting and Exhibition, Lake Buena Vista, FL, USA, 18–22 May 2014.
53. Ukonsaari, J.; Moller, H. Oil Cleanliness in Wind Power Gearboxes ; ELFORSK Report 12:52; ELFORSK:
Stockholm, Sweden, 2012.
54. Liu, Y.; Cao, X.; Qian, C.; Su, J.; Li, H.; Gu, L. Engine Lubricant Warning System Based on the Dielectric
Constant. In Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on Electronic Measurement & Instruments,
Beijing, China, 16–19 August 2009.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Machines 2018 ,6, 25 24 of 24
55. Carey, A.A.; Hayzen, A.J. Machinery Lubrication—The Dielectric Constant and Oil Analysis.
Emerson Process Management. Available online: http://www.machinerylubrication.com/Read/226/
dielectric-constant-oil-analysis (accessed on 20 August 2013).
56. Yang, D.; Zhang, X.; Hu, Z.; Yang, Y. Oil Contamination Monitoring Based on Dielectric Constant
Measurement. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Measuring Technology and Mechatronics
Automation, Zhangjiajie, China, 11–12 April 2009.
57. Mauntz, M.; Gegner, J.; Kuipers, U.; Klingau, S. A Sensor System for Online Oil Condition Monitoring of
Operating Components. Tribol. Fundament. Adv. 2013 . [CrossRef]
58. International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO). ISO 14635: Gears-FZG Test Procedures-Part 1:
FZG Test Method A/8,3/90 for Relative Scufﬁng Load-Carrying Capacity of Oils ; International Organization
for Standardization: Geneva, Switzerland, 2000.
59. Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN). DIN 51659-3: Schmierstoffe-Prüfverfahren-Teil 3: Bestimmung der
kinematischen Viskosität von Gebrauchten Schmierölen Mittels Houillon-Viskosimeter ; Beuth Verlag:
Berlin, Germany, 2017.
60. Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN). DIN 51399-1: Prüfung von Schmierölen-Bestimmung der
Elementgehalte aus Additiven, Abrieb und sonstigen Verunreinigungen-Teil 1: Direkte Bestimmung durch Optische
Emissionsspektralanalyse mit Induktiv Gekoppeltem Plasma (ICP OES) ; Beuth Verlag: Berlin, Germany, 2017.
61. Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN). DIN ISO 6618: Mineralölerzeugnisse und Schmierstoffe-Bestimmung von
Säure-oder Basenzahl-Farbindikator-Titration ; Beuth Verlag: Berlin, Germany, 2015.
62. Coronado, D.; Kupferschmidt, C.; Wirth, C.; Ernstorfer, M. Design and Construction of a Test Bench for
Assessment and Validation of Oil Sensor Systems for Online Oil Condition Monitoring of Wind Turbine
Gearboxes. In Proceedings of the 69th STLE Annual Meeting and Exhibition, Lake Buena Vista, FL, USA,
18–22 May 2014.
63. De Sousa Ferreira, J. Gear tooth Flank Damage Prediction Using High-Cycle Fatigue and Wear Models ;
Universidade do Porto: Porto, Portugal, 2013.
64. Olver, V . The mechanism of roller contact fatigue: An update. Proc. IMECHE J. Eng. Tribol. 2005 ,219.
[CrossRef]
65. DGKM. DGKM Information Sheet No. 575: Short Test Procedure for the Investigation of the Micro-Pitting Load
Capacity of Gear Lubricants ; DGMK: Hamburg, Germany, 2005.
66. Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN); European Committee for Standardization (CEN). DIN EN 61400-25-6:
Wind Energy Generation Systems—Part 25-6: Communications for Monitoring and Control of Wind Power
Plants—Logical Node Classes and Data Classes for Condition Monitoring ; Beuth: Berlin, Germany, 2017.
67. Hanneberg, M. Estimation of Condition and Wear Modes for Oil Lubricated Machinery in Ships. Ph.D. Thesis,
University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark, 2016.
©2018 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
