materials
Article
Incipient Fault Detection for Rolling Element
Bearings under Varying Speed Conditions
Lang Xue, Naipeng Li, Yaguo Lei * and Ningbo Li
Key Laboratory of Education Ministry for Modern Design and Rotor-Bearing System,
School of Mechanical Engineering, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Xi’an 710049, China;
18732195574@163.com (L.X.); li3112001096@stu.xjtu.edu.cn (N.L.); liningbo1992@163.com (N.L.)
*Correspondence: yaguolei@mail.xjtu.edu.cn; Tel.: +86-029-83395041
Received: 15 April 2017; Accepted: 15 June 2017; Published: 20 June 2017
Abstract: Varying speed conditions bring a huge challenge to incipient fault detection of rolling
element bearings because both the change of speed and faults could lead to the amplitude ﬂuctuation
of vibration signals. Effective detection methods need to be developed to eliminate the inﬂuence
of speed variation. This paper proposes an incipient fault detection method for bearings under
varying speed conditions. Firstly, relative residual (RR) features are extracted, which are insensitive
to the varying speed conditions and are able to reﬂect the degradation trend of bearings. Then,
a health indicator named selected negative log-likelihood probability (SNLLP) is constructed to fuse
a feature set including RR features and non-dimensional features. Finally, based on the constructed
SNLLP health indicator, a novel alarm trigger mechanism is designed to detect the incipient fault.
The proposed method is demonstrated using vibration signals from bearing tests and industrial wind
turbines. The results verify the effectiveness of the proposed method for incipient fault detection of
rolling element bearings under varying speed conditions.
Keywords: incipient fault detection; varying speed; alarm trigger mechanism; adaptive threshold;
rolling element bearings
1. Introduction
Rolling element bearings play a vital role in various industrial ﬁelds such as aviation, energy,
and metallurgy. They generally work under varying speed conditions, which brings great challenges
to the health monitoring and performance degradation evaluation of bearings [ 1]. For instance, the
rotating speed of wind turbines changes because of time-varying wind speed and grid control over the
long term. In such operation conditions, vibration signals always show non-stationary characteristics.
Both amplitudes and frequency components of vibration signals change with time [ 2,3]. Traditional
health monitoring methods generally assume that the change of vibration signals is just caused by
faults of mechanical equipment [ 4]. Therefore, these methods are unsuitable to health monitoring in the
varying speed conditions. Aiming for the issue of incipient fault detection of rolling element bearings
under varying speed conditions, new health monitoring methods should be developed. Basically,
there are two crucial factors determining the accuracy of incipient fault detection under varying speed
conditions: health indicator extraction and alarm trigger mechanism.
In the incipient fault detection process, a health indicator is always desired to effectively
compress the large amount of vibration signals and reﬂect the degradation trend of rotating machinery.
Many studies have been conducted on constructing such health indicators. Niu et al. [ 5] exploited
self-organizing map neural networks to extract a minimum quantization error fusion indicator for
methane compressor health monitoring. Soualhi et al. [ 6] used the Hilbert–Huang transform to extract
Hilbert spectral density as a health indicator to track the degradation of the critical components of
bearings. Li et al. [ 7] extracted a compressed acoustic emission indicator based on the empirical model
Materials 2017 ,10, 675; doi:10.3390/ma10060675 www.mdpi.com/journal/materials
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 2 of 15
decomposition for gear fault detection. Guo et al. [ 8] proposed a recurrent neural network based health
indicator for remaining useful life prediction of bearings. Javed et al. [ 9] extracted a novel indicator
based on trigonometric functions and cumulative transformation to monitor the degradation trend
of cutting tools and bearings. Qian et al. [ 10] applied recurrence quantiﬁcation analysis to extract
recurrence plot entropy indicators for monitoring bearing performance degradation. Picot et al. [ 11]
proposed a statistic-based spectral health indicator to detect bearing faults. These indicators are able
to reﬂect the degradation trend of rotating machinery, but they are hard to avoid being inﬂuenced
by the operation condition change. On the contrary, indicators such as kurtosis are insensitive to the
change of speed condition, but they are unable to reﬂect the degradation trend of rotating machinery.
Generally speaking, a desirable monitoring indicator should predominantly satisfy the following
two requirements: (1) being insensitive to the change of operation conditions; and (2) reﬂecting
the degradation degree of fault severity quantitatively. Considering the shortcoming of existing
indicators, it is necessary to extract new health indicators for the incipient fault detection under
varying speed conditions.
After constructing health indicators, an alarm trigger mechanism is needed to judge whether
incipient faults occur on rotating machinery or not. Various fault trigger mechanisms have been
designed to deal with this problem. Ginart et al. [ 12] presented a fault trigger mechanism based
on constant alarm threshold for fault detection of rotating machinery. Li et al. [ 7] detected gearbox
faults using a probability trigger mechanism, i.e., if more than a given percentage of features are
greater than a ﬁxed fault detection threshold, then it is believed that the incipient fault happens.
Loutas et al. [13] employed an alarm trigger mechanism based on a heuristic threshold for health
monitoring of gearboxes. Li et al. [14] proposed an adaptive continuous trigger mechanism, which is
regarded that the incipient fault has occurred when several continuous indicator values exceed the 3 
interval. Jin et al. [ 15] employed a combined alarm trigger mechanism to successfully detect faults
of cooling fans and motor bearings. These approaches have good performance in the fault detection.
However, they still have several shortcomings. For instance, in the probability trigger mechanism, the
percentage is calculated based on all of the historical measurements, which changes little when a new
indicator value above the threshold appears. In the continuous trigger mechanism, several continuous
indicator values above the threshold often occur in the signiﬁcant faults stage, but seldom happen in
the incipient fault stage.
To deal with the aforementioned problems, this paper proposes an incipient fault detection
method for rolling element bearings under varying speed conditions. The major contributions of this
method are: (1) relative residual (RR) features based on extreme learning machine (ELM) are proposed,
which are insensitive to the varying speed conditions and are able to better reﬂect the degradation
trend of bearings; (2) a health indicator, i.e., selected negative log-likelihood probability (SNLLP), is
constructed to fuse multiple features; and (3) an alarm trigger mechanism is established to improve
the accuracy of incipient fault detection based on the analysis of the fault typical behavior.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the basic theory of ELM and
Gaussian mixture model (GMM), respectively. In Section 3, the proposed incipient fault detection
method is introduced in detail. In Section 4, the health state of the industrial wind turbine is monitored
to further verify the effectiveness of the proposed method. Some concluding remarks are drawn in
Section 5.
2. Brief Introduction to ELM and GMM
2.1. Extreme Learning Machine
ELM was proposed by Huang for single hidden layer feedforward neural networks (SLFNs) [ 16].
The learning speed of the feedforward neural network is constrained by gradient-based iterative
learning algorithms. Unlike many other popular learning algorithms, the learning speed of ELM is fast
because input weights and hidden neuron biases are randomly generated [ 17]. ELM has been widely
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 3 of 15
used for regression and classiﬁcation issues by virtue of few parameters tuning, fast learning speed
and good generalization performance.
The output of SLFNs with Lhidden nodes can be expressed as:
fL(x)=L
å
i=1biG(ai,bi,x), (1)
where aiis the weight vector connecting input nodes and the ith hidden node, biis the bias of the ith
hidden node, biis the weight connecting the ith hidden node to the output node and G(ai,bi,x)is the
output of the ith hidden node with respect to the input x. The architecture of SLFNs is shown in the
Figure 1.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 3 of 14 
 been widely used for regression and classification issues by virtue of few parameters tuning, fast 
learning speed and good ge neralization performance. 
The output of SLFNs with L hidden nodes can be expressed as:  
݂௅(=)ݔ෍ߚ ௜௅
௜ୀଵܽ(ܩ௜,ܾ௜,,)ݔ( 1) 
where ܽ௜ is the weight vector connecting input nodes and the ith hidden node, ܾ௜ is the bias of the 
ith hidden node, ߚ௜ is the weight connecting the ith hidden node to the output node and ܽ(ܩ௜,ܾ௜,)ݔ 
is the output of the ith hidden node with respect to the input x. The architecture of SLFNs is shown 
in the Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1.  The architecture of SLFNs. 
The ܰ samples ሼ(ݔ௜,ݐ௜)ሽ௜ୀଵே are used to train parameters of SLFNs, where ݔ௜ is an ݊×1  input 
vector and ݐ௜ is a ݉×1  target vector. 
Then, Equation (1) can be rewritten as 
,ࢀ=ࢼࡴ ( 2) 
where  
=ࡴ൥ݔ(ࢎଵ)
⋮
ݔ(ࢎே)൩=൥ܽ(ܩଵ,ܾଵ,ݔଵ)…ܽ(ܩ௅,ܾ௅,ݔଵ)
⋮…⋮
ܽ(ܩଵ,ܾଵ,ݔே)…ܽ(ܩ௅,ܾ௅,ݔே)൩
ே×௅, (3) 
=ࢼ൥ߚଵ்
⋮
ߚ௅்൩
௅×௠and =ࢀ ൥ݐଵ்
⋮
ݐ௅்൩
ே×௠, (4) 
The number of hidden nodes ܮ is always less than the number of training samples, which 
means that the training error cannot be exactly ze ro but can approach zero . ELM randomly generates 
the input weight ܽ௜ and the hidden node bias ܾ௜, so the output weight ߚ௜ is just needed to be 
solved, which is estimated as  
ࢼ෡=ࡴା,ࢀ( 5) 
where ࡴା is a Moore–Penrose generalized inverse of the ࡴ matrix. 
For a given training sample set ሼ(ݔ௜,ݐ௜)ሽ௜ୀଵே and L hidden nodes, the solution process of ELM 
parameters is listed as: 
Step 1: Randomly generate the hidden layer parameters (ܽ௜,ܾ௜), =݅1 ,…,ܮ . 
Step 2: Select an infinitely differentiable function as the activation function for hidden nodes 
and then calculate the output matrix of hidden layer ࡴ .
Figure 1. The architecture of SLFNs.
The Nsamplesf(xi,ti)gN
i=1are used to train parameters of SLFNs, where xiis an n1input
vector and tiis am1 target vector.
Then, Equation (1) can be rewritten as
Hb=T, (2)
where
H=2
64h(x1)
...
h(xN)3
75=2
64G(a1,b1,x1). . . G(aL,bL,x1)
... . . ....
G(a1,b1,xN). . . G(aL,bL,xN)3
75
NL, (3)
b=2
64bT
1...
bT
L3
75
LmandT=2
64tT
1...
tT
L3
75
Nm, (4)
The number of hidden nodes Lis always less than the number of training samples, which means
that the training error cannot be exactly zero but can approach zero. ELM randomly generates the
input weight aiand the hidden node bias bi, so the output weight biis just needed to be solved, which
is estimated as
ˆb=H+T, (5)
where H+is a Moore–Penrose generalized inverse of the Hmatrix.
For a given training sample set f(xi,ti)gN
i=1andLhidden nodes, the solution process of ELM
parameters is listed as:
Step 1: Randomly generate the hidden layer parameters (ai,bi),i=1, . . . , L.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 4 of 15
Step 2: Select an inﬁnitely differentiable function as the activation function for hidden nodes and
then calculate the output matrix of hidden layer H.
Step 3: Calculate the output weight b:ˆb=H+T.
2.2. Gaussian Mixture Model
GMM has strong robustness and excellent computing performance to model the complicated
internal distribution characteristic contained in the data by using several Gaussian mixture
components [ 18]. This characteristic makes it very suitable to smooth the probability distribution
of arbitrary shape. Therefore, the GMM has been widely used in image background extraction and
speech recognition in recent years [19].
Theoretically, arbitrary data can be expressed by MGaussian probability density functions
p(xijF) =M
å
j=1jNj(xi,mj,åj), (6)
where jis the weight of the jth mixture component that satisﬁes the constraintM
å
j=1j=1and
0aj1,j=1, 2,. . .,M.Nj(xi,uj,åj)is a unimodal Gaussian probability density function, which
is expressed as
N
x;u,å
=1q
(2p)njåjexp
 1
2(x u)Tå 1
(x u)
, (7)
where xis the n-dimensional data vector, uis an1mean vector and åis anncovariance matrix.
To a NDdimensional training sample set X=fx1,x2, . . . , xNgT,the sample set is used to
estimate the GMM parameters jj=
xi,uj,åj
with the aid of the expectation–maximization (EM)
algorithm. The solution process of the GMM parameters is listed as follows:
Step 1: The K-means clustering algorithm is ﬁrst utilized to initialize GMM parameters xj0,uj0,åj0.
Step 2: To each training data xi, estimate the probability produced by each unimodal Gaussian
probability density function. The probability produced by the jth Gaussian mixture component is
expressed as
bij=ajNj(xi;F)
åM
k=1akNk(xi;F), 1in, 1jM; (8)
Step 3: Update parameters xj,uj,åj.
aj=åN
i=1bij
N,uj=åN
i=1xibij
åN
i=1bij,åj=åN
i=1bij 
xi ujT 
xi ujTT
åN
i=1bij; (9)
Step 4: Repeatedly iterate Steps 2 and 3 to update the parameters xj,uj,åjuntilp(XjF)k+1 p(XjF)k<#, where p(XjF)kand p(XjF)k+1are the probability density of kth
and ( k+1)th iteration, respectively.
Once the ﬁnal parameters are determined, the GMM that is trained by the sample set has been
constructed. Then, the trained GMM can be used to evaluate the membership degree of new data
relative to the training sample set, which is able to be denoted by the p(xijF).
3. Proposed Incipient Fault Detection Method
The ﬂowchart of the proposed method is shown in Figure 2. It is composed of three modules, i.e.,
RR extraction, health indicator construction and incipient fault detection.
In the RR features extraction module, real-time vibration signals acquired from rotating machinery
are de-noised by singular value decomposition (SVD) to enhance weak incipient fault characteristics.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 5 of 15
Then, dimensional features are extracted from the de-noised signals. Since the dimensional features
are easily inﬂuenced by speed variation, RR features are proposed to reduce the interference and better
reﬂect the health degradation trend of bearings. In the health indicator construction module, a feature
set is made up of RR features and non-dimensional features. Then, some features are selected from
the feature set using degradation evaluation metrics, and the dimension of these selected features
is further reduced by orthogonal locality preserving projections (OLPP). A novel health indicator
called SNLLP is constructed based on GMM to comprehensively quantify performance degradation of
bearings. In the incipient fault detection module, based on the SNLLP indicator, the incipient fault
is detected by the proposed alarm trigger mechanism. More details about these three modules are
presented as follows.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 5 of 14 
 some features are selected from the feature set using degradation evaluation metrics, and the 
dimensions of these selected features is further reduced by orthogonal locality preserving projections (OLPP). A novel health indicator called SNLLP is constructed based on GMM to 
comprehensively quantify performance degradation of bearings. In the incipient fault detection 
module, based on the SNLLP indicator, the incipient fault is detected by the proposed alarm trigger 
mechanism. More details about these three modules are presented as follows. 
 
Figure 2.  Flowchart of the proposed incipient fault detection method. 
3.1. RR Featur es Extraction 
In the RR features extraction module, at first, real-time vibration signals are acquired from 
sensors attached on rolling element bearings. Since bearing fault characteristics, especially in the 
incipient stage, are always submerged in strong ba ckground noise, SVD is employed to cancel the 
noise imbedded in vibration signals [20]. Then, original features are extracted from the de-noised signals in time domain, frequency domain and time-frequency domain. Generally, these features are classified into two classes, i.e., dimensional features and non-dimensional features. Many dimensional features are always able to directly reflect the health degradation trend of bearings at a constant speed condition, but the amplitudes of th ese features are also susc eptible to varying speed 
conditions. To explore the relationships between the speed and dimensional features, varying speed 
experiments of bearings are executed in a test rig.  
The experimental system is shown in Figure 3. The test rig includes two bearings, a 3-hp motor 
for driving bearing operation. The motor rotating speed is controlled by a speed controller, which 
allows the tested bearing to operate under vari ous speeds. Accelerometers are fixed on end cap 
closing to the tested bearing. The sampling frequency is 25.6 kHz. Data acquisition equipment is utilized to collect the vibration signals of bearings in normal and fault states via increasing the 
motor speed from 20 Hz to 40 Hz. The speed keeps st able for a period after increasing each 0.5 Hz. 
Under each constant-speed period, 10 sets of vibration signals are acquired. Each set of vibration signal contains 76,800 data points, i.e., 3 s. Figure 4 shows the variation of standard deviation of inverse hyperbolic cosine (Std of IHC) [9] and root mean square(RMS) values with the increase of speed under normal and fault states. From Figu re 4, two obvious rule s could be concluded: 
 There is an approximately linear relationship between the motor speed and the extracted 
features whether in the norm al state or fault state. 
 The fitting-regression lines of the features under the fault state have a la rger slope than those 
under a normal state, which means that the bearing in the fault state is more susceptible to speed than the bearing in the normal state. 
Figure 2. Flowchart of the proposed incipient fault detection method.
3.1. RR Features Extraction
In the RR features extraction module, at ﬁrst, real-time vibration signals are acquired from sensors
attached on rolling element bearings. Since bearing fault characteristics, especially in the incipient stage,
are always submerged in strong background noise, SVD is employed to cancel the noise imbedded
in vibration signals [ 20]. Then, original features are extracted from the de-noised signals in time
domain, frequency domain and time-frequency domain. Generally, these features are classiﬁed into
two classes, i.e., dimensional features and non-dimensional features. Many dimensional features are
always able to directly reﬂect the health degradation trend of bearings at a constant speed condition,
but the amplitudes of these features are also susceptible to varying speed conditions. To explore the
relationships between the speed and dimensional features, varying speed experiments of bearings are
executed in a test rig.
The experimental system is shown in Figure 3. The test rig includes two bearings, a 3-hp motor
for driving bearing operation. The motor rotating speed is controlled by a speed controller, which
allows the tested bearing to operate under various speeds. Accelerometers are ﬁxed on end cap closing
to the tested bearing. The sampling frequency is 25.6 kHz. Data acquisition equipment is utilized
to collect the vibration signals of bearings in normal and fault states via increasing the motor speed
from 20 Hz to 40 Hz. The speed keeps stable for a period after increasing each 0.5 Hz. Under each
constant-speed period, 10 sets of vibration signals are acquired. Each set of vibration signal contains
76,800 data points, i.e., 3 s. Figure 4 shows the variation of standard deviation of inverse hyperbolic
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 6 of 15
cosine (Std of IHC) [ 9] and root mean square(RMS) values with the increase of speed under normal
and fault states. From Figure 4, two obvious rules could be concluded:
 There is an approximately linear relationship between the motor speed and the extracted features
whether in the normal state or fault state.
 The ﬁtting-regression lines of the features under the fault state have a larger slope than those
under a normal state, which means that the bearing in the fault state is more susceptible to speed
than the bearing in the normal state.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 6 of 14 
  
Figure 3.  A bearing test rig. 
 
Figure 4.  Variation of feature values with the increa se of speed under normal and fault states: ( a) Std 
of IHC; ( b) RMS. 
In order to reduce the influence of the time-varying speed to dimensional features, the 
dimensional features are transformed to a set of RR features using ELM to reflect the degradation 
trend of rotating machinery under varying speed cond itions. The process of RR feature extraction is 
shown in Figure 5. 
ELM empirical 
model
Normal data DRolling element 
bearingSpeed parameters d(t) Actual indicator value y(t)
Estimated indicator value RR feature 
calculation
TrainingRR(t)
 
Figure 5.  Schematic of RR feature extraction. 
Step 1: The speed condition parameters in the normal state ݀௧∈ܴ஻×ଵ is used as the input of 
the trained model and the dimensional feature in the normal state ܨ௧∈ܴ஻×ଵ is utilized as the 
output of the trained model to  train the ELM empirical model of the normal behavior, where B is 
the number of training samples. 
Step 2: The new captured operating speed )ݐ(݀ is used as the input of the trained model. The 
ELM model estimation output value of )ݐ(݀ can be obtained as ݕො=)݀(݂  .
Figure 3. A bearing test rig.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 6 of 14 
  
Figure 3.  A bearing test rig. 
 
Figure 4.  Variation of feature values with the increa se of speed under normal and fault states: ( a) Std 
of IHC; ( b) RMS. 
In order to reduce the influence of the time-varying speed to dimensional features, the 
dimensional features are transformed to a set of RR features using ELM to reflect the degradation 
trend of rotating machinery under varying speed cond itions. The process of RR feature extraction is 
shown in Figure 5. 
ELM empirical 
model
Normal data DRolling element 
bearingSpeed parameters d(t) Actual indicator value y(t)
Estimated indicator value RR feature 
calculation
TrainingRR(t)
 
Figure 5.  Schematic of RR feature extraction. 
Step 1: The speed condition parameters in the normal state ݀௧∈ܴ஻×ଵ is used as the input of 
the trained model and the dimensional feature in the normal state ܨ௧∈ܴ஻×ଵ is utilized as the 
output of the trained model to  train the ELM empirical model of the normal behavior, where B is 
the number of training samples. 
Step 2: The new captured operating speed )ݐ(݀ is used as the input of the trained model. The 
ELM model estimation output value of )ݐ(݀ can be obtained as ݕො=)݀(݂  .
Figure 4. Variation of feature values with the increase of speed under normal and fault states: ( a) Std
of IHC; ( b) RMS.
In order to reduce the inﬂuence of the time-varying speed to dimensional features, the dimensional
features are transformed to a set of RR features using ELM to reﬂect the degradation trend of rotating
machinery under varying speed conditions. The process of RR feature extraction is shown in Figure 5.
Step 1: The speed condition parameters in the normal state dt2RB1is used as the input of the
trained model and the dimensional feature in the normal state Ft2RB1is utilized as the output of
the trained model to train the ELM empirical model of the normal behavior, where Bis the number of
training samples.
Step 2: The new captured operating speed d(t)is used as the input of the trained model. The ELM
model estimation output value of d(t)can be obtained as ˆy=f(d).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 7 of 15
Step 3: The RR feature is constructed as RR=(y ˆy)/ˆy, where yis the actual feature value
extracted from the measured vibration signal.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 6 of 14 
  
Figure 3.  A bearing test rig. 
 
Figure 4.  Variation of feature values with the increa se of speed under normal and fault states: ( a) Std 
of IHC; ( b) RMS. 
In order to reduce the influence of the time-varying speed to dimensional features, the 
dimensional features are transformed to a set of RR features using ELM to reflect the degradation 
trend of rotating machinery under varying speed cond itions. The process of RR feature extraction is 
shown in Figure 5. 
ELM empirical 
model
Normal data DRolling element 
bearingSpeed parameters d(t) Actual indicator value y(t)
Estimated indicator value RR feature 
calculation
TrainingRR(t)
 
Figure 5.  Schematic of RR feature extraction. 
Step 1: The speed condition parameters in the normal state ݀௧∈ܴ஻×ଵ is used as the input of 
the trained model and the dimensional feature in the normal state ܨ௧∈ܴ஻×ଵ is utilized as the 
output of the trained model to  train the ELM empirical model of the normal behavior, where B is 
the number of training samples. 
Step 2: The new captured operating speed )ݐ(݀ is used as the input of the trained model. The 
ELM model estimation output value of )ݐ(݀ can be obtained as ݕො=)݀(݂  .
Figure 5. Schematic of RR feature extraction.
Feature values in the fault state will deviate from the distribution of those in the normal state,
leading to statistically abnormal changes in RR values. Therefore, faults can be detected by evaluating
the extracted RR values.
To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed RR features, experimental data are further analyzed.
As described above, vibration signals of bearings in normal and fault states within the 20–40 Hz speed
range are ﬁrst de-noised by the SVD. Then, Std of IHC and RMS are selected from the dimensional
features to demonstrate the performance of corresponding RR features. The Std of IHC and RMS
values in the normal state and corresponding speed parameters are used to train the ELM empirical
model. The performance of the extracted RR features feature in the normal and fault state is shown
in Figure 6. It is seen that the amplitudes of RR features in the normal state are close to 0 and stay
stable. In the same fault degree, the amplitudes of RR features are greater than 0. In addition, they are
still stable without being inﬂuenced by the speed variation obviously. The results indicate that RR
features can well recognize the normal and fault state of bearings and also have a good resistance to
speed variation.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 7 of 14 
 Step 3: The RR feature is constructed as ݕ(=ܴܴ −ݕ ො) ݕො⁄, where ݕ is the actual feature value 
extracted from the measured vibration signal.  
Feature values in the fault state will deviate from the distribution of those in the normal state, 
leading to statistically abnormal changes in RR values. Therefore, faults can be detected by 
evaluating the extracted RR values. 
To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed  RR features, experimental data are further 
analyzed. As described above, vibration signals of bearings in normal and fault states within the 20–40 Hz speed range are first de-noised by the SV D. Then, Std of IHC and RMS are selected from 
the dimensional features to demonstrate the perfor mance of corresponding RR features. The Std of 
IHC and RMS values in the normal state and corresp onding speed parameters are used to train the 
ELM empirical model. The performance of the extrac ted RR features feature in the normal and fault 
state is shown in Figure 6. It is seen that the amplitudes of RR feat ures in the normal state are close 
to 0 and stay stable. In the same fault degree, the amplitudes of RR features are greater than 0. In addition, they are still stable without being influenced by the speed variation obviously. The results indicate that RR features can well recognize the normal and fault state of bearings and also have a good resistance to speed variation. 
 
Figure 6. Results of the extracted RR features: ( a) Std of IHC-RR; ( b) RMS-RR. 
3.2. Health Indicator Construction 
In this module, GMM-based SNLLP is constructed to provide a fusion health indicator. When 
the feature set composed of RR features and non-dimensional features is extracted, an optimal degradation feature selection method is required to select the features with useful information about bearing degradation processes. Good condition monitoring features should be well correlated to 
bearing degradation progresses, monotonous increasi ng or decreasing, robust ness to outliers caused 
by noise, etc. Therefore, correlation, monotonici ty and robustness metrics are utilized here for 
optimal feature selection. An integrated metric ab out these three evaluation metrics is used [21]: 
ܬݓ=ଵݓ+)ܨ(ݎݎ݋ܥଶݓ+)ܨ(݊݋ܯଷ,)ܨ(ܾ݋ܴ( 10) 
.ݐ.ݏቐݓ௜>0
෍ݓ௜
௜= 1,=݅ 1,2,3 , (11) 
where ܬ is total degradation evaluation score whose values belong  to the interval ሾ0,1ሿ, )ܶ,ܨ(ݎݎ݋ܥ 
is the correlation metric, )ܨ(݊݋ܯ is the monotonicity metric, )ܨ(ܾ݋ܴ is the robustness metric and 
ݓ௜ is the weight of each metric. Three degradation evaluation metrics are computed by virtue of the 
following equations: 
Figure 6. Results of the extracted RR features: ( a) Std of IHC-RR; ( b) RMS-RR.
3.2. Health Indicator Construction
In this module, GMM-based SNLLP is constructed to provide a fusion health indicator. When the
feature set composed of RR features and non-dimensional features is extracted, an optimal degradation
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 8 of 15
feature selection method is required to select the features with useful information about bearing
degradation processes. Good condition monitoring features should be well correlated to bearing
degradation progresses, monotonous increasing or decreasing, robustness to outliers caused by noise,
etc. Therefore, correlation, monotonicity and robustness metrics are utilized here for optimal feature
selection. An integrated metric about these three evaluation metrics is used [21]:
J=w1Corr(F)+w2Mon(F)+w3Rob(F), (10)
s.t.(wi>0
å
iwi=1,i=1, 2, 3, (11)
where Jis total degradation evaluation score whose values belong to the interval [0, 1],Corr(F,T)is
the correlation metric, Mon(F)is the monotonicity metric, Rob(F)is the robustness metric and wi
is the weight of each metric. Three degradation evaluation metrics are computed by virtue of the
following equations:
Corr(F,T)=jKåkFT(tk)tk åkFT(tk)tkjrh
KåkFT(tk)2 (åkFT(tk))2ih
Kåktk2 (åktk)2i, (12)
Mon(F)=1
K 1å
kd(FT(tk+1) FT(tk)) å
kd(FT(tk) FT(tk+1)), (13)
Rob(F)=1
Kå
kexp
 FR(tk)
F(tk)
, (14)
where F(tk)is the degradation feature value at the time tk,FT(tk)is the trend value which can be
obtained by common smoothness method, FR(tk)is the residual random value, Kis the number of
total feature values and ()is the unit step function.
In order to select the degradation features that have good performance, the features whose J
have higher scores are primarily selected. The selected degradation features still have redundant
information. Therefore, the dimension of these selected features is further reduced by OLPP . The OLPP
is utilized here to retain the low-dimensional nonlinear manifold structure that is hidden in the data
set and better dig out intrinsic fault information [ 22]. The former principal components whose total
cumulative contribution rate is above 90% are retained.
At last, the reduced principal components are fused using a GMM-based method [ 23]. The GMM
is trained by the values of the reduced principal components under the normal state. Then, the trained
GMM is used to online fuse degradation features. For each new captured sample, GMM will generate
p(xijF)using Equation (6), and the SNLLP health indicator is calculated as follows:
SNLLP = logp(xijF). (15)
3.3. Incipient Fault Detection
In this module, based on the constructed SNLLP health indicator, a new alarm trigger mechanism
is designed to detect the incipient fault based on the analysis of the fault typical behavior. For example,
more abnormal ﬂuctuation would appear in the signals and the amplitude of signals may increase
gradually. The proposed alarm trigger mechanism is composed of two criteria: (1) in a sliding time
window, the number of indicator values above the adaptive threshold has exceeded a safety number;
and (2) the indicator values in the sliding time-window present an increasing trend, which is evaluated
by the Spearman coefﬁcient.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 9 of 15
At ﬁrst, the adaptive threshold based on the Chebyshev’s inequality is established to identify
outliers. For an SNLLP indicator Im, the mean and Std of its index set at time mareXmand Sm
respectively. The Chebyshev’s inequality can be expressed as:
P Im XmkSm1
k2,8k>1, (16)
where kis threshold tolerance. For a given conﬁdence level 1/k2, the bound interval is expressed
as
Xm kSm,Xm+kSm
. Equation (16) means that the probability of Im/2
Xm kSm,Xm+kSm
is
less than 1/k2[24]. The former partial SNLLP indicators (I1,I2, . . . , Im)are selected to calculate the
initial bound:
Tm=XmkSm. (17)
As a new sample at time m+1is captured, judge whether the SNLLP value of the sample belongs
to the bound interval or not. If the sample belongs to the bound interval, it is added into the index set,
i.e.,(I1, . . . , Im,Im+1), the bound Tm+1is recalculated:
Tm+1=Xm+1kSm+1, (18)
where Xm+1and Sm+1are the mean and standard deviation of the index set (I1, . . . , Im,Im+1).
Otherwise, the sample is regarded as an outlier and the bound Tm+1is not updated.
Since the SNLLP indicator values always perform the gradually increasing trend during the whole
life cycle of bearings, the upper bound is selected as the detection threshold. Compared with random
ﬂuctuation, more abnormal ﬂuctuation would appear when incipient faults occur. Therefore, the ﬁrst
criterion is deﬁned as follows: the number of indicator values above the adaptive threshold in the
sliding time-window has exceeded a safety number. The safety number is determined by the threshold
tolerance and window length, which can be calculated by the following equation:
Sn=l
k2, (19)
where Snis the safety number and lis the window length.
When incipient faults occur, the indicator always performs the gradually increasing trend.
The Spearman coefﬁcient between the indicator and time is an effective tool to evaluate the
trend [ 25]. First, indicator fFigi=1:Nand timefTigi=1:Nare converted to their ranks ffigi=1:Nand
ftigi=1:N, and then the Spearman coefﬁcient rbetweenffigi=1:Nandftigi=1:Nis computed using the
following equality:
r=åN
i=1
fi f 
ti t
r
åN
i=1
fi f2
åN
i=1 
ti t2, (20)
where fandtare the means offfigi=1:Nandftigi=1:N, respectively. When fFigi=1:Nis a monotonous
increasing or decreasing function of fTigi=1:N, the Spearman coefﬁcient requals +1or 1. On the
contrary, iffFigi=1:Ndoes not have a good monotonic relation with fTigi=1:N, therwill be close to 0.
Since the gradually increasing trend just performs after the incipient fault occurs, it is not a
wise choice using the Spearman coefﬁcient in all of the historical measurements. Application of the
Spearman coefﬁcient in the sliding time-window is able to increase the sensitivity of detecting the
local increasing trends. Therefore, the second criterion can be deﬁned as follows: the Spearman
coefﬁcient rin the sliding time-window is higher than 1/2. When the two criteria above are satisﬁed
simultaneously, it means that an incipient fault has occurred.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 10 of 15
4. Industrial Data Veriﬁcation
4.1. Introduction to the Industrial Wind Turbine
In this section, the proposed method is demonstrated on the incipient fault detection of generator
bearings in wind turbines (WTs). As shown in Figure 7, the drivetrain of WTs mainly consists of
blades, gearboxes and generators. Vibration data is acquired from condition monitoring system (CMS).
The sampling frequency of accelerometers in the generator bearing is 25.6 kHz and 102,400 samples
(i.e., 4 s) are recorded about each 4 h. In addition, generator speed information of WTs is collected from
the supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system. Due to the inﬂuence of wind speed
and grid control, WT operates under varying speed characteristics. In the monitoring wind farms,
from 25 September 2014 to 9 September 2015, a generator bearing appeared to naturally degenerate.
Vibration signals during the whole lifetime of the bearing are shown in Figure 8.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 9 of 14 
 Therefore, the first criterion is defined as follows:  the number of indicator values above the adaptive 
threshold in the sliding time-window has exceeded a safety number. The safety number is determined by the threshold tolerance and window length, which can be calculated by the following 
equation: 
ܵ
௡=݈
݇ଶ, (19) 
where ܵ௡ is the safety number and ݈ is the window length.  
When incipient faults occur, the indicator always  performs the gradually increasing trend. The 
Spearman coefficient between the indicator and time is an effective tool to evaluate the trend [25]. 
First, indicator ሼܨ௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே  and time ሼܶ௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே  are converted to their ranks ሼ݂௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே  and ሼݐ௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே , and 
then the Spearman coefficient ߩ between ሼ݂௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே  and ሼݐ௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே  is computed using the following 
equality: 
=ߩ∑൫݂௜−݂̅൯(ݐ௜−ݐ̅)ே
௜ୀଵ
ට∑൫݂௜−݂̅൯ଶே
௜ୀଵ∑(ݐ௜−ݐ̅)ଶ ே
௜ୀଵ, (20) 
where ݂̅ and ݐ̅ are the means of ሼ݂௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே  and ሼݐ௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே , respectively. When ሼܨ௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே  is a 
monotonous increasing or decreasing function of ሼܶ௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே , the Spearman coefficient ߩ equals +1 
or −1. On the contrary, if ሼܨ௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே  does not have a good monotonic relation with ሼܶ௜ሽ௜ୀଵ:ே , the ߩ 
will be close to 0. 
Since the gradually increasing trend just performs after the incipient fault occurs, it is not a wise 
choice using the Spearman coefficient in all of the historical measurements. Application of the Spearman coefficient in the sliding time-window is able to increase the sensitivity of detecting the 
local increasing trends. Therefore, the second cr iterion can be defined as follows: the Spearman 
coefficient ߩ in the sliding time-window is higher than 12⁄. When the two criteria above are 
satisfied simultaneously, it means th at an incipient fault has occurred. 
4. Industrial Data Verification 
4.1. Introduction to the Industrial Wind Turbine 
In this section, the proposed method is demo nstrated on the incipient fault detection of 
generator bearings in wind turbines (WTs). As shown in Figure 7, the drivetrain of WTs mainly consists of blades, gearboxes and generators. Vibrat ion data is acquired from condition monitoring 
system (CMS). The sampling frequency of accelerometers in the generator bearing is 25.6 kHz and 
102,400 samples (i.e., 4 s) are recorded about each  4 h. In addition, generator speed information of 
WTs is collected from the supervisory control an d data acquisition (SCADA) system. Due to the 
influence of wind speed and grid control, WT oper ates under varying speed characteristics. In the 
monitoring wind farms, from 25 September 2014 to 9 September 2015, a generator bearing appeared to naturally degenerate. Vibration signals during the whole lifetime of the bearing are shown in Figure 8. 
 
Figure 7. The schematic diagram of WT. 
Figure 7. The schematic diagram of WT.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 10 of 14 
  
Figure 8. Vibration signals of bearing 2. 
4.2. RR Features Extraction of WT Bearings 
Original features in Table 1 are extracted from de-noised vibration signals of the bearing by 
SVD, i.e., 11 time-domain features, nine frequency-domain features and 16 time-frequency-domain features. In the time-domain features, two features are extracted, which are Std of IHC and standard deviation of inverse hyperbolic sine (Std of IHS) [9]. In the frequency domain, the harmonic amplitude sum (HAS) of and the harmonic energy sum (HES) of the ball-pass frequency outer ring 
(BPFO), ball-pass frequency inner ring (BPFI) and ball-spin frequency (HAS-BSF) are extracted, 
respectively. The sum of the three HAS features and the sum of the three HES features, which are 
named HASS and HESS, are calculated as well. In addition, a feature named “power ratio of maximal defective frequency to mean” (PMM) [26] is used as follows: 
=ܯܯܲ max()ܨܵܤܧ,ܫܨܲܤܧ,ܱܨܲܤܧ
mean()ܧ
, (21) 
where ܨܲܤܧ , ܫܨܲܤܧ , ܨܵܤܧ  is the energy of ܱܨܲܤ , ܫܨܲܤ  and  ܨܵܤ , mean()ܧ  is the mean of 
entire frequency energy. 
The 16 time-frequency-domain features are energies (E) and energy ratios (ER) of eight 
frequency bands decomposed by three-level wavelet packet decomposition. The db6 is selected as wavelet basis. The sampling frequency of accelerometers in the generator bearing is 25.6 kHz. Thus, the whole spectrum is divided into eight frequenc y bands where each frequency band has a range of 
1600 Hz. 
Table 1.  Original features extracted from  the de-noised vibration signals.  
Type Time-Domain Frequency-Domain Time-Frequency-Domain
Dimensional 
indicator F1: Standard deviation F12: HAS- BPFO F21–F28: E of eight bands 
F2: Peak-Peak F13: HAS-BPFI - 
F3: Mean-absolute F14: HAS-BSF - F4: Root mean square F15: HASS - 
F5: Std of IHC F16: HES-BPFO - 
F6: Std of IHS F17: HES-BPFI - 
- F18: HES-BSF - 
- F19: HESS - 
Non-dimensional 
indicator F7: Shape factor F20: PMM F29–F36: ER of eight bands 
F8: Crest factor - - 
F9: Impulse factor - - 
F10: Skewness - - 
F11: Kurtosis - - 
These 36 original features are classified into 22 dimensional features and 14 non-dimensional 
features. For the 22 dimensional features, the detail ed information of the corresponding RR features 
extraction process is displayed as follows. The former 1000 h features and corresponding speed parameters under the normal state are used to train the ELM empirical model. Then, for a new 
extracted feature and speed parameter, the trained EL M empirical model is utilized to extract the RR 
online. 0 6000-1000100Amplitude (m/s2)
Time (h)
Figure 8. Vibration signals of bearing 2.
4.2. RR Features Extraction of WT Bearings
Original features in Table 1 are extracted from de-noised vibration signals of the bearing by SVD,
i.e., 11 time-domain features, nine frequency-domain features and 16 time-frequency-domain features.
In the time-domain features, two features are extracted, which are Std of IHC and standard deviation
of inverse hyperbolic sine (Std of IHS) [ 9]. In the frequency domain, the harmonic amplitude sum
(HAS) of and the harmonic energy sum (HES) of the ball-pass frequency outer ring (BPFO), ball-pass
frequency inner ring (BPFI) and ball-spin frequency (HAS-BSF) are extracted, respectively. The sum of
the three HAS features and the sum of the three HES features, which are named HASS and HESS, are
calculated as well. In addition, a feature named “power ratio of maximal defective frequency to mean”
(PMM) [26] is used as follows:
PMM =max(EBPFO ,EBPFI ,EBSF )
mean (E), (21)
where EBPF ,EBPFI ,EBSF is the energy of BPFO ,BPFI and BSF,mean (E)is the mean of entire
frequency energy.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 11 of 15
The 16 time-frequency-domain features are energies (E) and energy ratios (ER) of eight frequency
bands decomposed by three-level wavelet packet decomposition. The db6 is selected as wavelet basis.
The sampling frequency of accelerometers in the generator bearing is 25.6 kHz. Thus, the whole
spectrum is divided into eight frequency bands where each frequency band has a range of 1600 Hz.
Table 1. Original features extracted from the de-noised vibration signals.
Type Time-Domain Frequency-Domain Time-Frequency-Domain
Dimensional indicatorF1: Standard deviation F12: HAS-BPFO F21–F28: E of eight bands
F2: Peak-Peak F13: HAS-BPFI -
F3: Mean-absolute F14: HAS-BSF -
F4: Root mean square F15: HASS -
F5: Std of IHC F16: HES-BPFO -
F6: Std of IHS F17: HES-BPFI -
- F18: HES-BSF -
- F19: HESS -
Non-dimensional indicatorF7: Shape factor F20: PMM F29–F36: ER of eight bands
F8: Crest factor - -
F9: Impulse factor - -
F10: Skewness - -
F11: Kurtosis - -
These 36 original features are classified into 22 dimensional features and 14 non-dimensional
features. For the 22 dimensional features, the detailed information of the corresponding RR features
extraction process is displayed as follows. The former 1000 h features and corresponding speed
parameters under the normal state are used to train the ELM empirical model. Then, for a new extracted
feature and speed parameter, the trained ELM empirical model is utilized to extract the RR online.
In order to evaluate the performance of the proposed RR features, partial features have been
intuitively compared with the corresponding RR features, which are shown in Figure 9. As mentioned
before, the generator speed during the whole life cycle has larger ﬂuctuation due to the inﬂuence
of wind speed and grid control. It is seen that, with the generator speed variation in a wide range,
peak-peak (PP) values have a larger and regular ﬂuctuation. Especially when the generator speed
gradually decreases, the PP values also have a decreasing trend around 6000 h. It cannot effectively
reﬂect the bearing degradation trend at this moment. In contrast, the PP-RR has a small ﬂuctuation
with the change of speed. The amplitudes of PP-RR are stable before 4000 h. It does not have an
obvious decreasing trend with the speed decreasing around 6000 h. The PP-RR presents an increasing
trend during the whole life cycle, which can better reﬂect the degradation trend of the bearing.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 11 of 14 
 In order to evaluate the performance of the prop osed RR features, partial features have been 
intuitively compared with the corresponding RR features, which are shown in Figure 9. As mentioned before, the generator speed during the wh ole life cycle has larger fluctuation due to the 
influence of wind speed and grid co ntrol. It is seen that, with the generator speed variation in a wide 
range, peak-peak (PP) values have a larger and re gular fluctuation. Especially when the generator 
speed gradually decreases, the PP values also have  a decreasing trend arou nd 6000 h. It cannot 
effectively reflect the bearing degradation trend at  this moment. In contrast, the PP-RR has a small 
fluctuation with the change of speed. The amplitudes of PP-RR are stable before 4000 h. It does not have an obvious decreasing trend with the speed decreasing around 6000 h. The PP-RR presents an 
increasing trend during the whole life cycle, wh ich can better reflect the degradation trend of the 
bearing. 
 
(a)
 
(b)
Figure 9. The comparison result: ( a) the generator speed during whole life cycle; ( b) PP and PP-RR. 
4.3. SNLLP Health Indicator Construction of WT Bearings 
When the feature set composed of RR features and non-dimensional feat ures is obtained, the 
metric in Equation (10) is used to select the fe atures that have a good degradation performance. 
Generally, the features demonstra ting monotonic trends are more desired. Thus, the monotonic 
metric is assigned higher weights than th e other two metrics, which are chosen as ݓଵ=0 . 2 ,ݓ ଶ=
0.5,ݓଷ=0 . 3 , respectively [21]. The evaluation score J of the 36 features are calculated and shown in 
Figure 10. The first half of features that have larger J values is selected. 
 
Figure 10. Feature selection results of bearings. 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000100015002000
Time (h)Speed (rpm)
Figure 9. The comparison result: ( a) the generator speed during whole life cycle; ( b) PP and PP-RR.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 12 of 15
4.3. SNLLP Health Indicator Construction of WT Bearings
When the feature set composed of RR features and non-dimensional features is obtained, the
metric in Equation (10) is used to select the features that have a good degradation performance.
Generally, the features demonstrating monotonic trends are more desired. Thus, the monotonic metric
is assigned higher weights than the other two metrics, which are chosen as w1=0.2,w2=0.5,w3=0.3,
respectively [ 21]. The evaluation score Jof the 36 features are calculated and shown in Figure 10.
The ﬁrst half of features that have larger Jvalues is selected.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 11 of 14 
 In order to evaluate the performance of the prop osed RR features, partial features have been 
intuitively compared with the corresponding RR features, which are shown in Figure 9. As mentioned before, the generator speed during the wh ole life cycle has larger fluctuation due to the 
influence of wind speed and grid co ntrol. It is seen that, with the generator speed variation in a wide 
range, peak-peak (PP) values have a larger and re gular fluctuation. Especially when the generator 
speed gradually decreases, the PP values also have  a decreasing trend arou nd 6000 h. It cannot 
effectively reflect the bearing degradation trend at  this moment. In contrast, the PP-RR has a small 
fluctuation with the change of speed. The amplitudes of PP-RR are stable before 4000 h. It does not have an obvious decreasing trend with the speed decreasing around 6000 h. The PP-RR presents an 
increasing trend during the whole life cycle, wh ich can better reflect the degradation trend of the 
bearing. 
 
(a)
 
(b)
Figure 9. The comparison result: ( a) the generator speed during whole life cycle; ( b) PP and PP-RR. 
4.3. SNLLP Health Indicator Construction of WT Bearings 
When the feature set composed of RR features and non-dimensional feat ures is obtained, the 
metric in Equation (10) is used to select the fe atures that have a good degradation performance. 
Generally, the features demonstra ting monotonic trends are more desired. Thus, the monotonic 
metric is assigned higher weights than th e other two metrics, which are chosen as ݓଵ=0 . 2 ,ݓ ଶ=
0.5,ݓଷ=0 . 3 , respectively [21]. The evaluation score J of the 36 features are calculated and shown in 
Figure 10. The first half of features that have larger J values is selected. 
 
Figure 10. Feature selection results of bearings. 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000100015002000
Time (h)Speed (rpm)
Figure 10. Feature selection results of bearings.
Then, OLPP is utilized to remove redundant information in the selected 18 degradation
features. The selected 18 degradation features are reduced as three principal components (PCs).
The dimensionality reduction result is shown in Figure 11a. At last, the GMM-based method is
utilized to fuse the three principal components. The normal data set, i.e., the former 1000 h principal
components is used to construct the GMM model. The fusion result is shown in Figure 11b. It is seen
that, with the fusion of these PCs, SNLLP shows more obvious degradation trends than these PCs and
describes the degradation process of the generator bearing during the whole life cycle comprehensively.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 12 of 14 
 Then, OLPP is utilized to remove redundant information in the selected 18 degradation 
features. The selected 18 degradation features are reduced as three principal components (PCs). The 
dimensionality reduction result is shown in Figure 11a. At last, the GMM-based method is utilized 
to fuse the three principal components. The normal  data set, i.e., the former 1000 h principal 
components is used to construct th e GMM model. The fusion result is shown in Figure 11b. It is seen 
that, with the fusion of these PCs, SNLLP shows more obvious degradation trends than these PCs 
and describes the degradation process of the generator bearing during the whole life cycle comprehensively. 
 
Figure 11. (a) the dimensionality reduction result by OLPP; ( b) SNLLP health indicator. 
4.4. Incipient Fault Detection of WT Bearings 
Based on the statistic characteristics of the SNLLP values, the incipient faults are detected by the 
proposed alarm trigger mechanism in Section 3.3.  The former 1000 h SNLLP values are used to 
calculate the initial threshold. 
To demonstrate the superiority of the proposed  method, another two approaches proposed by 
Ginart et al. [12] and Li et al. [7], respective ly, are applied for comparison. The results of these 
approaches are shown in Figure 12. It is seen that as a new measured sample is captured, the 
adaptive threshold in our approach is updated co ntinuously. There are some outliers caused by 
noise locating out of the adaptive threshold, whic h are marked by “*”. Ginart’s approach gives a 
false alarm during the normal state of the bearing. It is unable to exclude outliers caused by noise 
disturbance due to lacking a rational alarm trigger mechanism. Li’s result lags behind our approach seriously because this approach is based on all historical data. When the incipient fault appears, the 
change of probability is slow. However, our pr oposed alarm trigger mechanism has detected the 
incipient fault occurrence in time. 
Figure 11. (a) the dimensionality reduction result by OLPP; ( b) SNLLP health indicator.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 13 of 15
4.4. Incipient Fault Detection of WT Bearings
Based on the statistic characteristics of the SNLLP values, the incipient faults are detected by
the proposed alarm trigger mechanism in Section 3.3. The former 1000 h SNLLP values are used to
calculate the initial threshold.
To demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method, another two approaches proposed
by Ginart et al. [ 12] and Li et al. [ 7], respectively, are applied for comparison. The results of these
approaches are shown in Figure 12. It is seen that as a new measured sample is captured, the adaptive
threshold in our approach is updated continuously. There are some outliers caused by noise locating
out of the adaptive threshold, which are marked by “*”. Ginart’s approach gives a false alarm during
the normal state of the bearing. It is unable to exclude outliers caused by noise disturbance due to
lacking a rational alarm trigger mechanism. Li’s result lags behind our approach seriously because this
approach is based on all historical data. When the incipient fault appears, the change of probability is
slow. However, our proposed alarm trigger mechanism has detected the incipient fault occurrence
in time.
Materials 2017 , 10, 675 13 of 14 
 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 60000200400600800
Time (h)SNLLP
 2000 4000 60002345
 
Figure 12. The detection result of WT incipient fault. 
5. Conclusions 
Aiming at the health monitoring of bearings  under varying speed conditions, this paper 
proposes an accurate incipient fault detection me thod. Based on the dependence relation analysis 
between speed and dimensional feat ures, RR features based on ELM are proposed to better reflect 
the degradation trend of bearings under varying speed conditions. Then, the SNLLP health 
indicator is constructed to fuse multi-parameter features. Finally, based on the constructed SNLLP 
health indicator, an incipient fault alarm is tri ggered by the proposed alar m trigger mechanism. The 
proposed method is demonstrated using vibration signals from test rigs of bearings and industrial WTs. The results show that the RR features are insensitive to the varying speed conditions and are able to quantitatively reflect the degradation trend of bearings. The proposed alarm trigger 
mechanism is more reliable and accurate for the detection of incipient faults compared with two 
other alarm trigger mechanisms. 
Although this study has improved the accuracy of the incipient fault detection for bearings 
under varying speed conditions, the selection number of original features is still set subjectively. How to determine the selection number of original features adaptively is still a problem that needs to be researched in our future. 
Acknowledgments: This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China 
(51475355 and 61673311); the Young Talent Support Plan of  the Central Organization Department; and the 
Visiting Scholar Foundation of the State Key Lab of  Traction Power in Southwest Jiaotong University 
(TPL1703). 
Author Contributions: Lang Xue conceived the experiments, analyz ed the data and wrote the paper; Naipeng 
Li analyzed the data and proofread the manuscript; Ya guo Lei contributed the discussion of the data and 
guided the manuscript writing; Nin gbo Li proofread the manuscript. 
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
References 
1. Hu, L.; Hu, N.; Fan, B.; Gu, F,; Zhang, X. Modeling the relationship between vibration features and 
condition parameters using relevance vector machines for health monitoring of rolling element bearings 
under varying operation conditions. Math. Probl. Eng . 2015 , 2015 , 123730. 
2. Renaudin, L.; Bonnardot, F.; Musy, O.; Doray, J.B.; Ré mond, D. Natural roller bearing fault detection by 
angular measurement of true instantaneous angular speed. Mech. Syst. Signal Process . 2010 , 24, 1998–2011. 
3. Mei, H.; Yuan, S.; Qiu, L.; Zhang, J. Damage eval uation by a guided wave-hidden Markov model based 
method. Smart Mater. Struct . 2016 , 25, 025021. 
4. Zhan, Y.; Makis, V. A robust diagnostic model for gearboxes subject to vibration monitoring. J. Sound Vib . 
2006 , 290, 928–955. 
5. Niu, G.; Yang, B.S. Intelligent condition monitoring an d prognostics system based on data-fusion strategy. 
Expert Syst. Appl.  2010 , 37, 8831–8840. 
Figure 12. The detection result of WT incipient fault.
5. Conclusions
Aiming at the health monitoring of bearings under varying speed conditions, this paper proposes
an accurate incipient fault detection method. Based on the dependence relation analysis between speed
and dimensional features, RR features based on ELM are proposed to better reﬂect the degradation
trend of bearings under varying speed conditions. Then, the SNLLP health indicator is constructed
to fuse multi-parameter features. Finally, based on the constructed SNLLP health indicator, an
incipient fault alarm is triggered by the proposed alarm trigger mechanism. The proposed method
is demonstrated using vibration signals from test rigs of bearings and industrial WTs. The results
show that the RR features are insensitive to the varying speed conditions and are able to quantitatively
reﬂect the degradation trend of bearings. The proposed alarm trigger mechanism is more reliable and
accurate for the detection of incipient faults compared with two other alarm trigger mechanisms.
Although this study has improved the accuracy of the incipient fault detection for bearings under
varying speed conditions, the selection number of original features is still set subjectively. How to
determine the selection number of original features adaptively is still a problem that needs to be
researched in our future.
Acknowledgments: This research was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (51475355
and 61673311); National Program for Support of Top-notch Young Professionals; and Visiting Scholar Foundation
of the State Key Lab. of Traction Power in Southwest Jiaotong University (TPL1703).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 14 of 15
Author Contributions: Lang Xue conceived the experiments, analyzed the data and wrote the paper; Naipeng Li
analyzed the data and proofread the manuscript; Yaguo Lei contributed the discussion of the data and guided the
manuscript writing; Ningbo Li proofread the manuscript.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Hu, L.; Hu, N.; Fan, B.; Gu, F.; Zhang, X. Modeling the relationship between vibration features and condition
parameters using relevance vector machines for health monitoring of rolling element bearings under varying
operation conditions. Math. Probl. Eng. 2015 ,2015 , 123730. [CrossRef]
2. Renaudin, L.; Bonnardot, F.; Musy, O.; Doray, J.B.; R émond, D. Natural roller bearing fault detection by
angular measurement of true instantaneous angular speed. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2010 ,24, 1998–2011.
[CrossRef]
3. Mei, H.; Yuan, S.; Qiu, L.; Zhang, J. Damage evaluation by a guided wave-hidden Markov model based
method. Smart Mater. Struct. 2016 ,25, 025021. [CrossRef]
4. Zhan, Y.; Makis, V . A robust diagnostic model for gearboxes subject to vibration monitoring. J. Sound Vib.
2006 ,290, 928–955. [CrossRef]
5. Niu, G.; Yang, B.S. Intelligent condition monitoring and prognostics system based on data-fusion strategy.
Expert Syst. Appl. 2010 ,37, 8831–8840. [CrossRef]
6. Soualhi, A.; Medjaher, K.; Zerhouni, N. Bearing health monitoring based on Hilbert–Huang transform,
support vector machine, and regression. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2015 ,64, 52–62. [CrossRef]
7. Li, R.; He, D. Rotational machine health monitoring and fault detection using EMD-based acoustic emission
feature quantiﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2012 ,61, 990–1001. [CrossRef]
8. Guo, L.; Li, N.; Jia, F.; Lei, Y.; Lin, J. A recurrent neural network based health indicator for remaining useful
life prediction of bearings. Neurocomputing 2017 ,240, 98–109. [CrossRef]
9. Javed, K.; Gouriveau, R.; Zerhouni, N.; Nectoux, P . Enabling health monitoring approach based on vibration
data for accurate prognostics. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 647–656. [CrossRef]
10. Qian, Y.; Hu, S.; Yan, R. Bearing performance degradation evaluation using recurrence quantiﬁcation
analysis and auto-regression model. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE International Instrumentation and
Measurement Technology Conference (I2MTC), Minneapolis, MN, USA, 6–9 May 2013; IEEE: New York, NY,
USA; pp. 1713–1716.
11. Picot, A.; Obeid, Z.; R égnier, J.; Poignant, S.; Darnis, O.; Maussion, P . Statistic-based spectral indicator for
bearing fault detection in permanent-magnet synchronous machines using the stator current. Mech. Syst.
Signal Process. 2014 ,46, 424–441. [CrossRef]
12. Ginart, A.; Barlas, I.; Goldin, J.; Dorrity, J.L. Automated feature selection for embeddable prognostic and
health monitoring (PHM) architectures. In Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE Autotestcon, Anaheim, CA, USA,
18–21 September 2006; IEEE: New York, NY, USA; pp. 195–201.
13. Loutas, T.H.; Roulias, D.; Pauly, E.; Kostopoulos, V . The combined use of vibration, acoustic emission and oil
debris on-line monitoring towards a more effective condition monitoring of rotating machinery. Mech. Syst.
Signal Process. 2011 ,25, 1339–1352. [CrossRef]
14. Li, N.; Lei, Y.; Lin, J.; Ding, S.X. An improved exponential model for predicting remaining useful life of
rolling element bearings. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2015 ,62, 7762–7773. [CrossRef]
15. Jin, X.; Sun, Y.; Shan, J.; Wang, Y.; Xu, Z. Health monitoring and fault detection using wavelet packet technique
and multivariate process control method. In Proceedings of the 2014 Prognostics and System Health
Management Conference (PHM-2014 Hunan), Zhangiiaijie, China, 24–27 August 2014; IEEE: New York, NY,
USA; pp. 257–260.
16. Huang, G.B.; Zhu, Q.Y.; Siew, C.K. Extreme learning machine: A new learning scheme of feedforward neural
networks. In Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Budapest,
Hungary, 25–29 July 2004; IEEE: New York, NY, USA; Volume 2, pp. 985–990.
17. Nizar, A.H.; Dong, Z.Y.; Wang, Y. Power utility nontechnical loss analysis with extreme learning machine
method. IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 2008 ,23, 946–955. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Materials 2017 ,10, 675 15 of 15
18. Qiu, L.; Yuan, S.F.; Chang, F.K.; Bao, Q.; Mei, H.F. On-line updating Gaussian mixture model for aircraft
wing spar damage evaluation under time-varying boundary condition. Smart Mater. Struct. 2014 ,23, 125001.
[CrossRef]
19. Reynolds, D.A.; Quatieri, T.F.; Dunn, R.B. Speaker veriﬁcation using adapted Gaussian mixture models.
Digital Signal Process. 2000 ,10, 19–41. [CrossRef]
20. Qiao, Z.; Pan, Z. SVD principle analysis and fault diagnosis for bearings based on the correlation coefﬁcient.
Meas. Sci. Technol. 2015 ,26, 085014. [CrossRef]
21. Zhang, B.; Zhang, L.; Xu, J. Degradation feature selection for remaining useful life prediction of rolling
element bearings. Qual. Reliab. Eng. Int. 2016 ,32, 547–554. [CrossRef]
22. Cai, D.; He, X.; Han, J.; Zhang, H.J. Orthogonal laplacianfaces for face recognition. IEEE Trans. Image Process.
2006 ,15, 3608–3614. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
23. Yu, J. Bearing performance degradation assessment using locality preserving projections and Gaussian
mixture models. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2011 ,25, 2573–2588. [CrossRef]
24. Huber, P .J. The behavior of maximum likelihood estimates under nonstandard conditions. In Proceedings
of the Fifth Berkeley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and Probability, Berkeley, CA, USA,
21 June–18 July 1967; Volume 1, pp. 221–233.
25. Spearman, C. The proof and measurement of association between two things. Am. J. Psychol. 1904 ,15, 72–101.
[CrossRef]
26. Huang, R.; Xi, L.; Li, X.; Liu, C.R.; Qiu, H.; Lee, J. Residual life predictions for ball bearings based on
self-organizing map and back propagation neural network methods. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 2007 ,21,
193–207. [CrossRef]
©2017 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
