Citation: Vieira, J.L.d.M.; Farias, F.C.;
Ochoa, A.A.V .; de Menezes, F.D.;
Costa, A.C.A.d.; da Costa, J.Â.P .; de
Novaes Pires Leite, G.; Vilela, O.d.C.;
de Souza, M.G.G.; Michima, P .S.A.
Remaining Useful Life Estimation
Framework for the Main Bearing of
Wind Turbines Operating in Real
Time. Energies 2024 ,17, 1430.
https://doi.org/10.3390/en17061430
Academic Editors:
Mohammadreza Aghaei and
Aref Eskandari
Received: 16 February 2024
Revised: 5 March 2024
Accepted: 13 March 2024
Published: 16 March 2024
Copyright: ©2024 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
energies
Article
Remaining Useful Life Estimation Framework for the Main
Bearing of Wind T urbines Operating in Real Time
Januário Leal de Moraes Vieira1, Felipe Costa Farias1, Alvaro Antonio Villa Ochoa1,2,*
,
Frederico Duarte de Menezes1,2, Alexandre Carlos Ara újo da Costa2,3, José Ângelo Peixoto da Costa1,2
,
Gustavo de Novaes Pires Leite1,2,3
, Olga de Castro Vilela3, Marrison Gabriel Guedes de Souza4
and Paula Suemy Arruda Michima2
1Department of Higher Education Courses (DACS), Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology of
Pernambuco, Av. Prof Luiz Freire, 500, Recife 50740-545, Brazil; januarioleal@recife.ifpe.edu.br (J.L.d.M.V .);
felipe.farias@paulista.ifpe.edu.br (F.C.F.); fredericomenezes@recife.ifpe.edu.br (F.D.d.M.);
angelocosta@recife.ifpe.edu.br (J. Â.P .d.C.); gustavonovaes@recife.ifpe.edu.br (G.d.N.P .L.)
2Department of Mechanical Engineering, Federal University of Pernambuco, Cidade Universitaria, 1235,
Recife 50670-901, Brazil; alexandre.acosta@ufpe.br (A.C.A.d.C.); paula.michima@ufpe.br (P .S.A.M.)
3Centro de Energias Renov áveis (CER), Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Cidade Universitaria, 1235,
Recife 50670-901, Brazil; olga.vilela@ufpe.br
4NEOG—New Energy Options Geraç ão de Energia, Guamar é59598-000, Brazil; marrison.souza@neog.com.br
*Correspondence: ochoaalvaro@recife.ifpe.edu.br; Tel.: +55-81-99976-4266
Abstract: The prognosis of wind turbine failures in real operating conditions is a significant gap in the
academic literature and is essential for achieving viable performance parameters for the operation and
maintenance of these machines, especially those located offshore. This paper presents a framework
for estimating the remaining useful life (RUL) of the main bearing using regression models fed
operational data (temperature, wind speed, and the active power of the network) collected by a
supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system. The framework begins with a careful
data filtering process, followed by creating a degradation profile based on identifying the behavior of
temperature time series. It also uses a cross-validation strategy to mitigate data scarcity and increase
model robustness by combining subsets of data from different available turbines. Support vector,
gradient boosting, random forest, and extra trees models were created, which, in the tests, showed an
average of 20 days in estimating the remaining useful life and presented mean absolute error (MAE)
values of 0.047 and mean squared errors (MSE) of 0.012. As its main contributions, this work proposes
(i) a robust and effective regression modeling method for estimating RUL based on temperature and
(ii) an approach for dealing with a lack of data, a common problem in wind turbine operation. The
results demonstrate the potential of using these forecasts to support the decision making of the teams
responsible for operating and maintaining wind farms.
Keywords: wind turbine; main bearing; remaining useful life—RUL; remaining useful life; machine
learning; regression models; supervisory control and data acquisition—SCADA; bearing temperature
1. Introduction
Since the beginning of the 21st century, the pursuit of developing and enhancing
renewable energy production has been driven by environmental regulations, new business
prospects, and a shifting global mindset regarding the significance of utilizing energy
sources with minimal impact on the planet [1].
In this context, wind energy, a resource harnessed by humans for centuries, currently
stands out for its advanced technological level and widespread use in various countries,
both onshore and offshore. In terms of design, modern wind turbines surpass 120 m hub
heights, 200 m rotor diameters, and 5 MW production capacity barriers. Operationally,
wind farms have expanded in size, increasingly venturing into waters far from the coast
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430. https://doi.org/10.3390/en17061430 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 2 of 17
and employing specialized monitoring and control systems to ensure safety and efficiency
throughout their life cycle.
However, these large machines entail high operating and maintenance costs, around
12% for onshore installations and up to 23% [ 2] for offshore installations. The companies
operating and maintaining them have been striving to employ more precise and effective
maintenance methods and techniques to achieve more profitable production levels [ 3] and
enhanced safety.
In the wind energy industry, particularly offshore, corrective maintenance is undesir-
able due to its high costs and operational and environmental impacts. Therefore, preventive
and predictive maintenance are utilized to avoid early wind turbine failures. Predictive
maintenance, a technique based on condition monitoring as per NSAI [ 4], is carried out
using forecasts from the repeated analysis or evaluation of parameters and characteristics
indicating component degradation. This type of maintenance necessitates investment in
sensors, equipment to collect data from critical machine components, and human capital
capable of interpreting the data to generate relevant information for the decision making of
senior managers.
Vibration monitoring is an effective predictive technique for identifying component
degradation in mechanical assemblies. However, in applications such as wind turbines,
where there is a wide range of load variation, randomly, over short periods [5] (pp. 178–227),
and in low-speed conditions, it is a challenge to identify incipient faults in bearings and
gears. In these cases, it is necessary to identify and analyze changes in the vibrational
signature of these components concerning the start of operation or its replacement.
Temperature monitoring also provides valuable data. Analyzing deviations in histori-
cally observed temperature values can reveal possible flaws in development, allowing for
early corrections before major problems occur.
In order to successfully implement condition-based maintenance (CBM), sophisticated
techniques for fault detection, diagnosis, and prediction that satisfy the wind energy
sector’s technical, operational, safety, and environmental requirements must be used.
Consequently, to carry out a failure prognosis, the earlier it is possible to identify a
degradation profile in which the data show a monotonic signal with a trend, the more
successful the prognosis estimation will be.
Fault prognosis is the next frontier that the wind energy industry seeks. From this
perspective, there has been an explosion of articles since 2014 investigating the use of data-
driven methods and models for the assessment of remaining useful life (RUL), as shown
in Figure 1, addressing different failure prognosis techniques in the kinematic assembly,
mainly in wind turbine speed reducers. Several authors [ 6–10] have used machine learning
techniques or artificial neural networks (ANN) to estimate the RUL of gears and bearings
in speed reducers and carry out failure prognoses. Still, the number of studies for main
bearing prognosis is significantly lower [2,11], as shown in Figure 1.
Some studies [ 12,13] employing hybrid models with deep neural networks have
focused on main bearing fatigue estimates. Other studies advance the estimation of the
RUL of the main bearing using natural neural network models (e.g., LSTM) [ 9]. The authors
emphasize the need for data manipulation, data augmentation [ 13], and resampling [ 9] to
estimate fatigue or RUL.
Challenges in the failure prognosis of wind turbine main bearings stem from the lack
of understanding of the relationship between load and damage and frequency and failure
modes in real applications [11].
An accurate calculation of the RUL estimate is crucial for cost-effective maintenance
and greater wind turbine availability. Machine learning and artificial intelligence algorithms
enable the utilization of a massive amount of data from the condition-based maintenance
system and the supervision and data acquisition system to estimate the RUL of power train
components [7,14].
The use of variables like temperature is proposed as an alternative for identifying
faults and conducting prognosis. Wind turbine supervisory control systems (SCADA)
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 3 of 17
monitor the temperatures of the various components of the kinematic assembly, from the
main bearing to the bearing on the opposite side of the coupling and of the Nacelle and the
environment. It is possible to set temperature limits based on technical information about
the components and lubricants used.
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 18 
 
  
Figure 1. Number of records of publications related to failure prognostics of all components or sub-
systems and failure prognostics of main bearing of wind turbines on Engineering Village (COM-
PENDEX). 
Some studies [12,13] employing hybrid mo dels with deep neural networks have fo-
cused on main bearing fatigue estimates. Othe r studies advance the estimation of the RUL 
of the main bearing using natural neural network models (e.g., LSTM) [9]. The authors 
emphasize the need for data manipulation, data  augmentation [13], and resampling [9] to 
estimate fatigue or RUL. 
Challenges in the failure prognosis of wind turbine main bearings stem from the lack 
of understanding of the relationship between load and damage and frequency and failure 
modes in real applications [11]. 
An accurate calculation of the RUL estimate is crucial for cost-e ﬀective maintenance 
and greater wind turbine availability. Machine learning and arti ﬁcial intelligence algo-
rithms enable the utilization of a massive amount of data from the condition-based 
maintenance system and the supervision and da ta acquisition system to estimate the RUL 
of power train components [7,14]. 
The use of variables like temperature is proposed as an alternative for identifying 
faults and conducting prognosis. Wind turbine supervisory control systems (SCADA) 
monitor the temperatures of the various components of the kinematic assembly, from the 
main bearing to the bearing on the opposite side of the coupling and of the Nacelle and 
the environment. It is possible to set temperature limits based on technical information about the components and lubricants used. 
This article presents a methodology for es timating the RUL of main bearings from 
regression models using real wind turbine da ta. The models were built with the a priori 
deﬁnition of an RUL pro ﬁle through the analysis of local temperature time series, creation 
of training sets, validation and testing with di ﬀerent turbine time series, evaluation of 
metrics such as mean squared error (MSE), root mean squared error (RMSE), mean abso-
lute error (MAE), and the coe ﬃcient of determination (R
2 Score), and estimation of RUL 
using the test dataset. 
The main contributions of this article include the following: 
• The development of a robust framework for estimating RUL from real main bearing 
temperature series from a SCADA system; 
Figure 1. Number of records of publications related to failure prognostics of all compo-
nents or subsystems and failure prognostics of main bearing of wind turbines on Engineering
Village (COMPENDEX).
This article presents a methodology for estimating the RUL of main bearings from
regression models using real wind turbine data. The models were built with the a priori
definition of an RUL profile through the analysis of local temperature time series, creation
of training sets, validation and testing with different turbine time series, evaluation of
metrics such as mean squared error (MSE), root mean squared error (RMSE), mean absolute
error (MAE), and the coefficient of determination (R2Score), and estimation of RUL using
the test dataset.
The main contributions of this article include the following:
• The development of a robust framework for estimating RUL from real main bearing
temperature series from a SCADA system;
• The presentation of a cross-validation strategy to mitigate the issue of scarce data and
increase models’ generalization capacities.
The remainder of this manuscript is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the frame-
work methodology for estimating the main bearing’s RUL. Section 3 provides the results
and discussion obtained with the developed models, and Section 4 presents the conclusions.
2. Methodology for Wind T urbine Useful Life Estimation
This paper presents a framework for predicting wind turbine failures by estimating the
remaining useful life of the main bearing using temperature data monitored by a SCADA
system. The framework used raw main bearing temperature data and regression models to
calculate the RUL of turbines from two wind farms installed on the coast of northeastern
Brazil. The turbines were all the same model and had a rated power above 1 MW. Detailed
information cannot be made available for confidentiality reasons.
The procedure consists of reading and preprocessing the raw data from the SCADA
system and creating a degradation profile based on the temperature behavior with the
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 4 of 17
design limits. The main bearing average temperature, environment average temperature,
wind speed, and active grid power data within the operational range of the wind turbines
were considered variables of interest. The environmental conditions and mechanical
properties of the main bearing lubricant of three wind turbines with different degradation
dynamics were also accounted for. Simulation cases were then defined from the datasets
of these three turbines, respectively, for training, validating, and testing machine learning
models using regression models.
The MSE, RMSE, MAE, and R2Score metrics were calculated for the regression models
developed, and rankings were made based first on the MAE and then on the R2Score. The
two models with the lowest MAEs and highest R2Scores were chosen to estimate the RUL
of the wind farm’s main turbine bearing.
Figure 2 shows the flowchart for estimating the RUL of the main bearing from temper-
ature data.
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 18 
 
 • The presentation of a cross-va lidation strategy to mitigate the issue of scarce data and 
increase models’ generalization capacities. 
The remainder of this manuscript is orga nized as follows. Section 2 presents the 
framework methodology for estimating the ma in bearing’s RUL. Section 3 provides the 
results and discussion obtained with the developed models, and Section 4 presents the 
conclusions. 
2. Methodology for Wind Turbine Useful Life Estimation 
This paper presents a framework for predicting wind turbine failures by estimating 
the remaining useful life of the main bear ing using temperature data monitored by a 
SCADA system. The framework used raw main bearing temperature data and regression 
models to calculate the RUL of turbines from  two wind farms installed on the coast of 
northeastern Brazil. The turbines were all the same model and had a rated power above 1 
MW. Detailed information cannot be made available for con ﬁdentiality reasons. 
The procedure consists of reading and pr eprocessing the raw data from the SCADA 
system and creating a degradation pro ﬁle based on the temperature behavior with the 
design limits. The main bearing average temp erature, environment average temperature, 
wind speed, and active grid power data within  the operational range of the wind turbines 
were considered variables of interest. The environmental conditions and mechanical 
properties of the main bearing lubricant of three wind turbines with di ﬀerent degradation 
dynamics were also accounted for. Simulation cases were then de ﬁned from the datasets 
of these three turbines, respectively, for trai ning, validating, and testing machine learning 
models using regression models. 
The MSE, RMSE, MAE, and R2 Score metrics were calculated for the regression mod-
els developed, and rankings were made based ﬁrst on the MAE and then on the R2 Score. 
The two models with the lowest MAEs and highest R2 Scores were chosen to estimate the 
RUL of the wind farm’s main turbine bearing.  
Figure 2 shows the ﬂowchart for estimating the RUL of the main bearing from tem-
perature data. 
 
Figure 2. RUL estimation using regression machine learning models. 
As shown in Figure 2, the overall method consists of eleven stages. In the ﬁrst stage, 
the raw data from the SCADA system is read. The second stage aims for the preprocessing 
stage of the data with cleaning, ﬁltering, and resampling techniques. The third stage aims 
Figure 2. RUL estimation using regression machine learning models.
As shown in Figure 2, the overall method consists of eleven stages. In the first stage,
the raw data from the SCADA system is read. The second stage aims for the preprocessing
stage of the data with cleaning, filtering, and resampling techniques. The third stage aims
for data classification. The fourth stage involves the creation of data for training, validation,
and testing, and the available data are separated into subsets. The fifth stage aims to
prepare and train the regression models. In the sixth stage, cross-validation is carried out
to identify the best hyperparameters of the models. The seventh stage is linked to the
determination of the study metrics. In the eighth stage, the models are ranked, and the
best ones are selected. The simulations are carried out to estimate the remaining useful life
(RUL) based on reading data from the test subsets in the ninth stage. In the tenth stage, the
simulation with the best regressive models is carried out, and finally, in the eleventh stage,
the RUL is calculated.
2.1. SCADA System Data Reading and Preprocessing
The SCADA system has a lower data acquisition rate than condition-based mainte-
nance systems [ 15] (pp. 303–342). The signals are recorded in 10 min samples over a given
time interval, but they can still identify faults generated by components and subsystems
that involve changes in measured quantities. The raw turbine data from the two wind
farms were provided in “.csv” format and were read and condensed into a parquet file. A
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 5 of 17
single data frame was created containing all the SCADA variables with the data from the
parquet file, which we will call the raw data dataset. From the raw data dataset, a new one
was created with only the time series with the variables of interest (main bearing average
temperature, environment average temperature, windspeed average status, grid average
active power) of 34 wind turbines (WT1–WT34) from the two wind farms.
Figure 3 shows the preprocessing of the signal. In the first step, the data were filtered
to remove measurements where the wind speed was greater than or equal to 3.5 m/s,
generator speed was below 1198 RPM or above 1200 RPM, and ambient temperature
was less than or equal to 50 degrees Celsius, which were outside the turbine’s operating
conditions. The temperature series was then resampled at 1 h intervals to filter out intra-
hour variations. In the second step, a feature was created by subtracting the ambient
temperature from the main bearing temperature value as outlined by Wiese et al. [ 16], which
we will call temperature variation, to remove the influence of the ambient temperature on
the main bearing behavior.
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 18 
 
 for data classi ﬁcation. The fourth stage involves the creation of data for training, valida-
tion, and testing, and the available data are separated into subsets. The ﬁfth stage aims to 
prepare and train the regression models. In th e sixth stage, cross-validation is carried out 
to identify the best hyperparameters of the models. The seventh stage is linked to the de-
termination of the study metrics. In the eigh th stage, the models are ranked, and the best 
ones are selected. The simulations are carried out to estimate the remaining useful life 
(RUL) based on reading data from the test subs ets in the ninth stage. In the tenth stage, 
the simulation with the best regr essive models is carried out, and ﬁnally, in the eleventh 
stage, the RUL is calculated. 
2.1. SCADA System Data Reading and Preprocessing 
The SCADA system has a lower data acquisition rate than condition-based mainte-
nance systems [15] (pp. 303–342 ). The signals are recorded in 10 min samples over a given 
time interval, but they can still identify fa ults generated by components and subsystems 
that involve changes in measured quantities . The raw turbine data from the two wind 
farms were provided in “.csv” format and were read and condensed into a parquet ﬁle. A 
single data frame was created containing all the SCADA variables with the data from the 
parquet ﬁle, which we will call the raw data dataset. From the raw data dataset, a new one 
was created with only the time series with th e variables of interest (main bearing average 
temperature, environment average temperatur e, windspeed average status, grid average 
active power) of 34 wind turbines (WT1–WT34) from the two wind farms.  
Figure 3 shows the preprocessing of the signal. In the ﬁrst step, the data were ﬁltered 
to remove measurements where the wind speed was greater than or equal to 3.5 m/s, gen-
erator speed was below 1198 RPM or above 1200 RPM, and ambient temperature was less 
than or equal to 50 degrees Celsius, which were outside the turbine’s operating conditions. 
The temperature series was then resampled at 1 h intervals to ﬁlter out intra-hour varia-
tions. In the second step, a feature was created by subtracting the ambient temperature from the main bearing temperature value as outlined by Wiese et al. [16], which we will 
call temperature variation, to remove the in ﬂuence of the ambient temperature on the 
main bearing behavior. 
 
Figure 3. Signal preprocessing. 
In the third step of preprocessing, the temp erature variation outliers were removed. 
This involved eliminating values below 10 degrees Celsius, which indicate that the wind 
turbine operates at low speed, and values abov e 98% of the percentile of the time series, 
considering the operating temperature range ( −30 °C to +110 °C) of the SKF LGWM 1 
grease used to lubricate the main bearing. Fi gure 4 displays the time  series of the failed 
turbines (WT9, WT14, and WT29) with the outliers, while Figure 5 shows the series with 
the outliers removed and with the 1-day resampling necessary for seasonal decomposi-
tion. At the four steps, measurements were removed that presented missing values (Not a 
Numbers—NaNs) and that could not be conv erted into another value other than the ﬂoat 
type [17] of the main bearing temperature variat ion to obtain the desired result in the last 
preprocessing step. 
The ﬁnal preprocessing step involved applying an additive seasonal decomposition 
to the time series. This method estimates the time series trend by applying a convolution 
ﬁlter to the data, removing the computed trend from the series, and then calculating the 
average of the detrended series [18]. In this  work, additive seasonal decomposition was 
used for 7-day periods, and the results are shown in Figure 6. 
Figure 3. Signal preprocessing.
In the third step of preprocessing, the temperature variation outliers were removed.
This involved eliminating values below 10 degrees Celsius, which indicate that the wind
turbine operates at low speed, and values above 98% of the percentile of the time series,
considering the operating temperature range ( −30◦C to +110◦C) of the SKF LGWM 1
grease used to lubricate the main bearing. Figure 4 displays the time series of the failed
turbines (WT9, WT14, and WT29) with the outliers, while Figure 5 shows the series with
the outliers removed and with the 1-day resampling necessary for seasonal decomposition.
At the four steps, measurements were removed that presented missing values (Not a
Numbers—NaNs) and that could not be converted into another value other than the float
type [ 17] of the main bearing temperature variation to obtain the desired result in the last
preprocessing step.
The final preprocessing step involved applying an additive seasonal decomposition
to the time series. This method estimates the time series trend by applying a convolution
filter to the data, removing the computed trend from the series, and then calculating the
average of the detrended series [ 18]. In this work, additive seasonal decomposition was
used for 7-day periods, and the results are shown in Figure 6.
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 18 
 
  
Figure 4. Main bearing average temperature series  with outliers (WT9, WT14, and WT29). 
 
Figure 5. Temperature variation for the main bearing after outlier removal (WT9, WT14, and WT29). 
 
Figure 6. Temperature variation for the main bearing after seasonal decomposition (WT9, WT14, 
and WT29). 
2.2. Classi ﬁcation of Temperature Variation Data 
This section outlines the process of classifying temperature variation data for appli-
cation in regression models. The following steps are involved:  
1. The Identi ﬁcation of Failure Times: A graphical time series analysis determines the 
ﬁrst prediction time (FPT) and failure threshold time (FTT). FPT marks the compo-
nent degradation process initiation, while the FTT signi ﬁes complete degradation. 
Figure 4. Main bearing average temperature series with outliers (WT9, WT14, and WT29).
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 6 of 17
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 18 
 
  
Figure 4. Main bearing average temperature series  with outliers (WT9, WT14, and WT29). 
 
Figure 5. Temperature variation for the main bearing after outlier removal (WT9, WT14, and WT29). 
 
Figure 6. Temperature variation for the main bearing after seasonal decomposition (WT9, WT14, 
and WT29). 
2.2. Classi ﬁcation of Temperature Variation Data 
This section outlines the process of classifying temperature variation data for appli-
cation in regression models. The following steps are involved:  
1. The Identi ﬁcation of Failure Times: A graphical time series analysis determines the 
ﬁrst prediction time (FPT) and failure threshold time (FTT). FPT marks the compo-
nent degradation process initiation, while the FTT signi ﬁes complete degradation. 
Figure 5. Temperature variation for the main bearing after outlier removal (WT9, WT14, and WT29).
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 18 
 
  
Figure 4. Main bearing average temperature series  with outliers (WT9, WT14, and WT29). 
 
Figure 5. Temperature variation for the main bearing after outlier removal (WT9, WT14, and WT29). 
 
Figure 6. Temperature variation for the main bearing after seasonal decomposition (WT9, WT14, 
and WT29). 
2.2. Classi ﬁcation of Temperature Variation Data 
This section outlines the process of classifying temperature variation data for appli-
cation in regression models. The following steps are involved:  
1. The Identi ﬁcation of Failure Times: A graphical time series analysis determines the 
ﬁrst prediction time (FPT) and failure threshold time (FTT). FPT marks the compo-
nent degradation process initiation, while the FTT signi ﬁes complete degradation. 
Figure 6. Temperature variation for the main bearing after seasonal decomposition (WT9, WT14,
and WT29).
2.2. Classification of Temperature Variation Data
This section outlines the process of classifying temperature variation data for applica-
tion in regression models. The following steps are involved:
1. The Identification of Failure Times: A graphical time series analysis determines the
first prediction time (FPT) and failure threshold time (FTT). FPT marks the component
degradation process initiation, while the FTT signifies complete degradation.
2. Minimum Classification Value Definition: A minimum classification value is based on
the temperature variation.
3. Linear Interpolation: Utilize linear interpolation to classify data between FPT and
FTT instances.
In analyzing turbine time series data, essential steps were taken to estimate the re-
maining useful life (RUL). The failure detection time (FPT) and failure threshold time
(FTT) were pinpointed by graphically examining the time series. The FPT represents the
beginning of component degradation, and the FTT marks the moment when the component
is considered thoroughly degraded. The period between the FTT and FPT is the remaining
useful life.
Following data preprocessing (described in Figure 3), the next step is classifying
temperature variation data to establish the dependent variable for regression models. A
manual definition of the seasonal decomposition stage was carried out by observing the
behavior of the temperature variation time series of the main bearing.
A graphical analysis of the temperature variation time series identified instances
of monotonic increase, indicating the FPT. Data before this moment were classified as
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 7 of 17
healthy (assigned the value 1). The FTT, identified as the instant with the most significant
temperature variation, represented where data were classified as degraded (assigned the
value 0). Upon the return of temperature variation to non-zero values, the data were
reclassified as healthy, denoting the restoration of valuable life, referred to as the restoration
instant (RT). Each turbine exhibited different maximum temperature variation values:
34.17◦C, 39.5◦C, and 28.5◦C for the WT9, WT14, and WT29 turbines. These values were
normalized and employed to define the minimum data classification value according to
Equation (1).
Class min=1−Temperaturenorm(1)
Considering the instants FPT, FTT, and RT, along with their corresponding data
classification values, linear interpolation was employed to classify temperature variation
data within the FPT and FTT intervals. The classification process unfolded across different
intervals as follows:
a. Interval 1 (Beginning of Time Series to Before Observable Increase in Main Bearing
Temperature): Data are consistently classified with a value of one (1).
b. Interval 2 (Start of Rise in Main Bearing Temperature to First Occurrence of Maximum
Temperature): Values gradually decrease through linear interpolation between 1 and
the minimum classification value ( Class min). This considers the interval from the
initial rise in main bearing temperature to the point of the first occurrence of the
maximum temperature.
c. Interval 3 (First Occurrence of Maximum Temperature to Turbine Shutdown): Data
classification is assigned a zero value (0) during this interval, extending from the first
occurrence of the maximum temperature until the turbine ceases operation.
d. Post-Turbine Shutdown and Restart: Upon the resumption of wind turbine operation,
the data classification reverts to a value of one (1).
Figure 7 illustrates the comprehensive data classification for the three selected turbines
across the entire time series. It showcases distinct degradation dynamics in the main
bearings, with variations observed in the degradation speed, which was sometimes faster
for WT9 and occasionally slower for WT29.
2.3. Creation of Data Subsets
One common issue with machine learning models is overfitting, which can occur when
using samples from the same dataset for training and testing. However, using different
datasets involves a trade-off: reducing overfitting at the expense of regression model
metrics.
In this study, we employed a strategy to address data scarcity and minimize overfitting,
as suggested by [ 19,20]. This involved using subsets of data, defined through a combination
with permutation, from the three-time series of the WT9, WT14, and WT29 turbines, which
exhibited the monotonic growth of the main bearing temperature (see Table 1).
Table 1. Subsets used to deal with the scarcity of data.
ID Training Subset Validation Subset Testing Subset
SC01 WT9 WT14 WT29
SC02 WT9 WT29 WT14
SC03 WT14 WT9 WT29
SC04 WT14 WT29 WT9
SC05 WT29 WT9 WT14
SC06 WT29 WT14 WT9
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 8 of 17
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 18 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 7. RUL pro ﬁles estimated from the main bearings’ temp erature time series for wind turbines 
(a) WT9, ( b) WT14, and ( c) WT29. 
2.3. Creation of Data Subsets 
One common issue with machine learning models is over ﬁtting, which can occur 
when using samples from the same dataset for training and testing. However, using dif-ferent datasets involves a trade-o ﬀ: reducing over ﬁtting at the expense of regression 
model metrics. 
In this study, we employed a strategy to address data scarcity and minimize over ﬁt-
ting, as suggested by [19,20]. This involved using subsets of data, de ﬁned through a com-
bination with permutation, from the three-time series of the WT9, WT14, and WT29 tur-
bines, which exhibited the monotonic growth of the main bearing temperature (see Table 
1). 
Table 1. Subsets used to deal with the scarcity of data. 
ID Training Subset Validat ion Subset Testing Subset 
SC01 WT9 WT14 WT29 
SC02 WT9 WT29 WT14 
SC03 WT14 WT9 WT29 
Figure 7. RUL profiles estimated from the main bearings’ temperature time series for wind turbines
(a) WT9, ( b) WT14, and ( c) WT29.
The IDs indicated in Table 1 represent a combination of data from one turbine used
to train the model (training subset), data from another turbine used to validate the model
(validation subset), and data from a third turbine used to test the model after validation
(testing subset). These IDs will be used throughout the text to refer to the simulation cases.
2.4. Model Development
Six regressive machine learning models, namely support vector regression (SVR),
isotonic regression (ISOR), gradient boosting regression (GBR), decision tree regression
(DTR), extra trees regression (ETR), and random forest regression (RFR), were developed
to estimate the RUL using the sci-kit-learn Python library.
The training, validation, and test data were normalized according to the respective
data ranges (MinMax Scaler) to standardize the range of independent variables [21].
The independent variables used in the models’ training, validation, and testing subsets
included the temperature variations of the main bearing, the wind speed, and the net active
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 9 of 17
power of the wind turbines in the subassemblies. The dependent variables were the
classified data, shown in Figure 7, estimated from the temperature time series. The data
subsets were used as described in Section 2.3 to guarantee the use of distinct subsets for
training, validation, and testing.
Cross-validation is a critical process as it enhances the performance of model estimates,
reduces overfitting, and aids in selecting the best model and its hyperparameters, thus
improving the robustness of tests.
The choice of datasets from different turbines and different power plants aimed to
avoid the occurrence of inflated model scores with hyperparameters adjusted through
cross-validation, as observed by Leahy et al. [22].
Following the model training, cross-validation was employed to identify the model
and hyperparameters that would minimize the mean squared error regression loss. The
parameter ranges for each regression model are detailed in Table 2.
The following metrics were calculated for each case to evaluate and compare the results
of the regression models and are shown in Table 1: mean squared error (MSE), root mean
squared error (RMSE), mean absolute error (MAE), and the coefficient of determination (R2
Score). The averages and standard deviations of the training, validation, and test metrics
for each subset of the simulated cases were also calculated.
The metrics obtained from the six developed models and the six cases showed slight
variations. Consequently, we selected the two models with the lowest MAE values and the
R2Score values closest to 1. The RUL was estimated for each model, and the estimated and
observed values were compared, considering the stop dates recorded for the wind turbines,
as identified through the main bearing temperature time series.
The calculation of the RUL depends on the availability of information at the first
prediction time; in this study, this time was identified using the time series evaluated.
RUL estimates were performed using data from the WT9, WT14, and WT29 turbines.
A comparison was then performed with the failure date, also identified in the time series.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 10 of 17
Table 2. List of parameters and ranges of parameters used for cross-validation task.
ParametersSupport Vector
Regression (SVR)Decision Tree
Regression (DTR)Isotonic Regression (ISOR)Gradient Boosting
Regression (GBR)Random Forest (RFR) Extra Trees (ETR)
Parameter 1Regularization
parameter—CCriterion: function to
measure the quality of
a splitLower bound on the lowest
predicted value (y_min)LossCriterion: function to
measure the quality of
a split.Criterion: function to
measure the quality of
a split.
Range 0.1, 1.0, 10.0Squared error, absolute
error, and Friedman MSE0, 0.1, 0.25, 0.5Squared error, absolute
error, Huber, and
quantileSquared error, absolute
error, and Friedman MSESquared error, absolute
error, and Friedman MSE
Parameter 2 Polynomial degreeThe maximum depth of
the treeUpper bound on the highest
predicted value (y_max)Learning rateThe maximum depth of
the treeThe maximum depth of
the tree
Range 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 None, 5, 10 0.5, 0.75, 1 0.01, 0.05, 0.1 None, 5, 10 None, 5, 10
Parameter 3 -Minimum number of
samples required to split
an internal nodeWhether computing data are
increasing or decreasing
(increasing)Number of estimators Random_state Random_state
Range - 2, 5, 10 True, False, ‘auto’ 100, 250, 500 None, 10, 100 None, 10, 100
Parameter 4 - -Handles how X values
outside of the training
domain are handled during
prediction (out_of_bounds)Criterion - -
Range - - clipFriedman MSE and
squared error- -
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 11 of 17
3. Analysis and Discussion of Results
This section presents the results obtained with the models at the training, validation,
and testing stages. Firstly, the results of the regression model metrics and the selected
models are shown. Secondly, the results of the simulations for estimating the RUL are
shown. After that, remarks on the RUL estimation results and a discussion about the section
results are presented.
3.1. Metrics for Regression Models
Metrics were chosen that allowed for a straightforward interpretation (MAE, MSE,
RMSE) to evaluate the regression models that had a lower sensitivity to outliers (MAE) and
explained the influence of the independent variables on the dependent variable—RUL—
(R2Score). The lower the MSE and RMSE values, the better the model results. The MAE
should vary from 0 to 1 due to the RUL range, with values closer to zero being desirable.
Values closer to 1 are desirable for the R2score.
Figure 8 illustrates the average MSE, RMSE, and MAE metric values during the model
testing stage. Small variations were observed in the MAE and MSE. Although the average
MAE varied from 0.02 to 0.07, the average standard deviation varied between 0.002 and
0.029, indicating that the models must present differences in RUL estimates. The models
with the lowest MAE averages were RFR and DTR. The lowest standard deviation values
were observed for the GBR, ETR, and DTR models. Consequently, these models should
provide estimates with more minor errors, which was proven in the GBR and RFR models,
as shown in Section 3.2.
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 11 of 18 
 
 3. Analysis and Discussion of Results 
This section presents the results obtained with the models at the training, validation, 
and testing stages. Firstly, the results of th e regression model metrics and the selected 
models are shown. Secondly, the results of the simulations for estimating the RUL are 
shown. After that, remarks on the RUL estimation results and a discussion about the sec-
tion results are presented. 
3.1. Metrics for Regression Models 
Metrics were chosen that allowed for a straightforward interpretation (MAE, MSE, 
RMSE) to evaluate the regression models that  had a lower sensitivity to outliers (MAE) 
and explained the in ﬂuence of the independent variables on the dependent variable—
RUL— (R2 Score). The lower the MSE and RMSE values, the be tter the model results. The 
MAE should vary from 0 to 1 due to the RUL range, with values closer to zero being de-
sirable. Values closer to 1 are desirable for the R2 score. 
Figure 8 illustrates the average MSE, RMSE, and MAE metric values during the 
model testing stage. Small variations were observed in the MAE and MSE. Although the 
average MAE varied from 0.02 to 0.07, the average standard deviation varied between 
0.002 and 0.029, indicating that the models must present di ﬀerences in RUL estimates. The 
models with the lowest MAE averages were RF R and DTR. The lowest standard deviation 
values were observed for the GBR, ETR, an d DTR models. Consequently, these models 
should provide estimates with more minor e rrors, which was proven in the GBR and RFR 
models, as shown in Section 3.2. 
  
(a)—Support vector regression model ( b)—Isotonic regression model 
  
(c)—Gradient boosting regression model ( d)—Decision tree regression model 
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 18 
 
   
(e)—Extra trees regression model ( f)—Random forest regression model 
Figure 8. MAE, MSE, and RMSE results for each regression model and simulation case. ( a) support 
vector, ( b) isotonic, ( c) gradient boosting, ( d) decision tree, ( e) extra trees, and ( f) random Forest. 
In the case of the R2 Score metric, the average values for the training, validation, and 
test subsets ranged from 0.894 to 0.639, with a standard deviation ranging from 0.073 to 
0.402 (see Figure 9). The RFR, ETR, and GBR models be tter inﬂuenced the main bearing 
temperature variation on the RUL’s higher R2 Score values. The lowest standard deviation 
values were observed for the ISOR, ETR, and GBR models. Additionally, the R2 Score re-
sults indicate that data subsets 01  and 03 exhibited the lowest values. 
  
(a)—Support vector regression model ( b)—Isotonic regression model 
  
(c)—Gradient boosting regression model ( d)—Decision tree regression model 
  
(e)—Extra trees regression model ( f)—Random forest regression model 
Figure 8. MAE, MSE, and RMSE results for each regression model and simulation case. ( a) support
vector, ( b) isotonic, ( c) gradient boosting, ( d) decision tree, ( e) extra trees, and ( f) random Forest.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 12 of 17
In the case of the R2Score metric, the average values for the training, validation, and
test subsets ranged from 0.894 to 0.639, with a standard deviation ranging from 0.073 to
0.402 (see Figure 9). The RFR, ETR, and GBR models better influenced the main bearing
temperature variation on the RUL’s higher R2Score values. The lowest standard deviation
values were observed for the ISOR, ETR, and GBR models. Additionally, the R2Score
results indicate that data subsets 01 and 03 exhibited the lowest values.
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 18 
 
   
(e)—Extra trees regression model ( f)—Random forest regression model 
Figure 8. MAE, MSE, and RMSE results for each regression model and simulation case. ( a) support 
vector, ( b) isotonic, ( c) gradient boosting, ( d) decision tree, ( e) extra trees, and ( f) random Forest. 
In the case of the R2 Score metric, the average values for the training, validation, and 
test subsets ranged from 0.894 to 0.639, with a standard deviation ranging from 0.073 to 
0.402 (see Figure 9). The RFR, ETR, and GBR models be tter inﬂuenced the main bearing 
temperature variation on the RUL’s higher R2 Score values. The lowest standard deviation 
values were observed for the ISOR, ETR, and GBR models. Additionally, the R2 Score re-
sults indicate that data subsets 01  and 03 exhibited the lowest values. 
  
(a)—Support vector regression model ( b)—Isotonic regression model 
  
(c)—Gradient boosting regression model ( d)—Decision tree regression model 
  
(e)—Extra trees regression model ( f)—Random forest regression model 
Figure 9. Results of R2Score for each regression model and each simulation case. ( a) Support vector,
(b) Isotonic, ( c) Gradient boosting, ( d) Decision tree, ( e) Extra trees, and ( f) Random Forest.
Among the metrics, there was little variation between the training and validation
stages:
• For the MAE, the averages ranged from 0.27 in training to 0.25 in validation, Table 3;
• For the MSE, the averages ranged from 0.005 in training to 0.004 in validation, Table 4;
• For the RMSE, the averages ranged from 0.066 in training to 0.063 in validation, Table 5;
• For the R2Score, the averages ranged from 0.839 in training to 0.86 in validation, Table 6.
Table 3. Results of mean absolute error (MAE) for all simulation cases, for each model, for training,
validation, and testing steps.
Models Mean of Training Values [days] Mean of Validation Values [days] Mean of Testing Values [days]
DTR 0.014 0.014 0.040
ETR 0.023 0.023 0.040
GBR 0.026 0.026 0.049
ISOR 0.025 0.025 0.043
RFR 0.018 0.014 0.034
SVR 0.057 0.051 0.075
Overall mean MAE 0.027 0.025 0.047
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 13 of 17
Table 4. Mean squared error (MSE) results for all simulation cases, for each model, for training,
validation, and testing steps.
Models Mean of Training Values [days2] Mean of Validation Values [days2]Mean of Testing Values [days2]
DTR 0.004 0.004 0.013
ETR 0.004 0.004 0.010
GBR 0.004 0.004 0.012
ISOR 0.005 0.005 0.013
RFR 0.005 0.003 0.011
SVR 0.007 0.006 0.015
Overall mean MSE 0.005 0.004 0.012
Table 5. Root mean squared error (RMSE) results for all simulation cases, for each model, for training,
validation, and testing steps.
Models Mean of Training Values [days] Mean of Validation Values [days] Mean of Testing Values [days]
DTR 0.059 0.058 0.111
ETR 0.062 0.062 0.096
GBR 0.060 0.059 0.109
ISOR 0.071 0.071 0.111
RFR 0.063 0.054 0.100
SVR 0.082 0.077 0.122
Overall mean RMSE 0.066 0.063 0.108
Table 6. Coefficient of determination (R2Score) results for all simulation cases, for each model, for
training, validation, and testing steps.
ModelsMean of Training Values
[Dimensionless]Mean of Validation Values
[Dimensionless]Mean of Testing Values
[Dimensionless]
DTR 0.877 0.880 0.623
ETR 0.864 0.865 0.677
GBR 0.861 0.885 0.639
ISOR 0.836 0.836 0.633
RFR 0.807 0.901 0.630
SVR 0.790 0.798 0.545
Overall mean R2Score 0.839 0.861 0.625
Ranking the models examined was challenging due to the slight variations across
the stages.
Due to the small variation in the MAE averages and the variations in the average and
standard deviation of the R2score, we decided to conduct simulations with all models and
evaluate the results by assessing the performances of the models for each simulated case.
3.2. Estimation of the Remaining Useful Life of the Sample Set of Failed Turbines
At this stage, simulations were carried out with the models using the turbine data
defined in the test subset for the cases presented in Section 2.3. Table 7 presents the best
results obtained in the simulations with the test subsets.
Table 7. Best simulation results with test subsets.
Simulation Case Model RUL Estimation [days] Calculation Error of RUL Estimation [Days]
SC02 SVR 1638.0 −111
SC05 SVR 1685.0 −64
SC04 GBR 393.0 0
SC04 RFR 461.0 68
SC02 ETR 1856.0 107
SC06 ETR 1855.0 118
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 14 of 17
The “RUL estimation” column indicates the calculated value of the remaining useful
life obtained by the respective model and with the respective dataset, and the “Error on
RUL estimation” column indicates the differences between the results in the forecast date
and date columns when the fault was recorded.
Negative values in the RUL estimation error column indicate that the estimated date
was lower than recorded. Positive values in this column indicate that the estimated date
was greater than the recorded date.
The results with the SVR and ETR models were obtained without the fault detection
date information. The results for the GBR and RFR models were obtained with details on
the fault detection date.
Figure 10 shows the results of the SVR models for the two simulation cases (SC02
and SC05). It is observed that the models, trained and validated with data from other
turbines, can represent the behavior of WT14 used in tests until close to the failure date.
The model presents more significant errors in making this representation in the interval
between stopping and returning to operation.
Energies 2024 , 17, x FOR PEER REVIEW 15 of 18 
 
  
Figure 10. Best result simulations with SVR models (SC02 e SC05). 
3.3. Remarks on RUL Estimation Results 
The developed models demonstrated satisf actory performances for the commonly 
used metrics used to evaluate regression models. However, the small di ﬀerences in per-
formance made establishing a ranking strategy for the models challenging. 
In the simulations for estimating the RUL, the SVR and ETR models could reproduce 
the degradation behavior based on the time series data. The SVR model exhibited more 
conservative results, predicting the fail ure date earlier than the recorded one. 
On the other hand, the GBR and RFR models required information on the date of 
detection to make a more accurate estimate of the RUL. 
3.4. Final Discussion of the Results 
The results show that it is possible to estimate RUL using li ttle data and without 
overﬁtting, using data from three wind turbines. This makes it a viable complementary 
option for the decision making of wind farm maintenance managers. However, as high-
lighted by several authors [21,23,24], intensive real data preprocessing techniques were 
necessary to obtain time series that would enable obtaining minimally reasonable results 
from regressive machine learning models. This stage requires the analysis of the mechan-
ical behavior of components, subsystems, an d systems under study, combined with data 
processing techniques to e ﬀectively generate useful information for the operation and 
maintenance of wind turbines. 
The results of the remaining useful life estimates (RUL) of wind turbines allow dif-
ferent interpretations from a maintenance point of view. They can be considered assertive, 
such as the GBR model that predicted the date wi th an error of zero days; conservative, in 
the case of SVR models that underestimated th e useful life; and non- conservative, such as 
the ETR and RFR models, which overestimated th e values found in the time series (see 
Table 7). Therefore, conservative  estimates, such as those from the SVR, and assertive ones, 
such as those from the GBR, can support pr oper maintenance planning for the resources 
needed to carry out scheduled shutdowns and interventions on the turbines, thus avoid-
ing catastrophic failures that could reduce the availability of the wind farm. In this way, 
the estimates support the prevention of catast rophic faults and guarantee the operation of 
the turbines [25]. In the same cont ext, using subsets of real data e ﬀectively mitigated the 
Figure 10. Best result simulations with SVR models (SC02 e SC05).
3.3. Remarks on RUL Estimation Results
The developed models demonstrated satisfactory performances for the commonly
used metrics used to evaluate regression models. However, the small differences in perfor-
mance made establishing a ranking strategy for the models challenging.
In the simulations for estimating the RUL, the SVR and ETR models could reproduce
the degradation behavior based on the time series data. The SVR model exhibited more
conservative results, predicting the failure date earlier than the recorded one.
On the other hand, the GBR and RFR models required information on the date of
detection to make a more accurate estimate of the RUL.
3.4. Final Discussion of the Results
The results show that it is possible to estimate RUL using little data and without over-
fitting, using data from three wind turbines. This makes it a viable complementary option
for the decision making of wind farm maintenance managers. However, as highlighted by
several authors [ 21,23,24], intensive real data preprocessing techniques were necessary to
obtain time series that would enable obtaining minimally reasonable results from regres-
sive machine learning models. This stage requires the analysis of the mechanical behavior
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 15 of 17
of components, subsystems, and systems under study, combined with data processing
techniques to effectively generate useful information for the operation and maintenance of
wind turbines.
The results of the remaining useful life estimates (RUL) of wind turbines allow different
interpretations from a maintenance point of view. They can be considered assertive, such
as the GBR model that predicted the date with an error of zero days; conservative, in the
case of SVR models that underestimated the useful life; and non-conservative, such as
the ETR and RFR models, which overestimated the values found in the time series (see
Table 7). Therefore, conservative estimates, such as those from the SVR, and assertive ones,
such as those from the GBR, can support proper maintenance planning for the resources
needed to carry out scheduled shutdowns and interventions on the turbines, thus avoiding
catastrophic failures that could reduce the availability of the wind farm. In this way, the
estimates support the prevention of catastrophic faults and guarantee the operation of
the turbines [ 25]. In the same context, using subsets of real data effectively mitigated the
effects of scarce data and overfitting, which was a significant contribution due to the limited
availability of time series data on main bearing failures.
The strategy of creating simulation cases proved effective in dealing with the issue of
data scarcity without the need to use data padding or synthetic data. Future work could
address the development of a framework that uses data of increasing complexity (synthetic
data, bench test data, and real data) to enable the use and evaluation of different machine
learning or deep learning models.
Nevertheless, for the successful application of the method, data on the variables of
interest, indicated in Section 2.1, are necessary from at least three wind turbines that have
experienced main bearing failure to minimize overfitting. Another limitation of the method
is the need for main bearing temperature data with monotonic growth and, if possible,
with records close to the turbine shutdown date for replacements. Using low-temperature
values for model training and validation may bias the results, and the method may indicate
a replacement before the component’s actual end of life.
It is worth underscoring that utilizing low-temperature values during the model’s
training and validation can introduce distortion into the results. Such a bias may cause
the method to suggest replacement prematurely, preceding the actual conclusion of the
component’s operational lifespan. Therefore, meticulous and representative data collec-
tion is imperative to uphold the dependability and precision of the analysis, preventing
premature or erroneous determinations in the context of main bearing replacement.
4. Conclusions
A framework for predicting wind turbine main bearing failures was developed and
tested using temperature data from a SCADA system. Temperature data and different
machine learning regression models (support vector regression isotonic regression, gradient
boosting regression, decision tree, extra trees, and random forest regression) were used to
estimate the remaining useful life (RUL) of the main bearings of wind turbines with scarce
data. The main findings of the study are as follows:
• The models were tested on real data from three wind turbines in northeastern Brazil,
showing satisfactory results in each step of the validation and test. The MAE, MSE,
RMSE, and R2Score metric values in the validation step were 0.25, 0.004, 0.004, and
0.86, respectively;
• Regarding the simulation, the results demonstrated that the models (SVR, ETR, GBR,
and RFR) outperformed since they showed an average of 20 days in estimating the
remaining useful life of the main bearings of the wind turbines;
• The methodology showed that conservative estimates, such as those from the SVR, and
assertive ones, such as those from the GBR, can support proper maintenance planning,
thereby avoiding catastrophic failures that could reduce the wind farm’s availability.
Future work will focus on developing a framework that uses synthetic, bench, and real
data to build more complex models. It is also essential to understand the failure mechanisms
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 16 of 17
and the data collection process for model development, as indicated by [ 2,26]. Furthermore,
organizations must improve data management processes for effective decision making [ 26].
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, J.L.d.M.V ., F.C.F., and G.d.N.P .L.; methodology, J.L.d.M.V .,
G.d.N.P .L. and A.A.V .O.; software, J.L.d.M.V ., F.C.F., G.d.N.P .L. and A.A.V .O.; validation, J.L.d.M.V .
and G.d.N.P .L.; formal analysis, J.L.d.M.V .; investigation, J.L.d.M.V .; resources A.A.V .O., J. Â.P .d.C.,
F.D.d.M., A.C.A.d.C., M.G.G.d.S. and G.d.N.P .L.; data curation, J.L.d.M.V ., O.d.C.V . and M.G.G.d.S.;
writing—original draft preparation, J.L.d.M.V ., P .S.A.M., and A.A.V .O.; writing—review and edit-
ing, J. Â.P .d.C., P .S.A.M., G.d.N.P .L., and A.A.V .O.; visualization, P .S.A.M.; supervision, J. Â.P .d.C.,
G.d.N.P .L., A.A.V .O. and P .S.A.M.; project administration, A.C.A.d.C., J. Â.P .d.C., G.d.N.P .L., A.A.V .O.,
M.G.G.d.S. and P .S.A.M.; funding acquisition, A.C.A.d.C., J. Â.P .d.C., G.d.N.P .L., M.G.G.d.S., O.d.C.V .
and A.A.V .O. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by Rio Amazonas SA—2021.
Data Availability Statement: The data are not publicly available due to confidentiality issues.
Acknowledgments: This study obtained information while developing a Research and Development—
R&D project supported by Rio Amazonas SA and approved by the Brazilian Regulatory Agency
ANEEL. The first author thanks IFPE, Brazil, for the support through their doctorate thesis. The
third author thanks CNPq, Brazil, for the support through productivity grant n. 303417/2022-6. The
seventh author thanks CNPq for his support through post-doctorate grant 200820/2022-2 under Call
26/2021 and productivity grant n. 303200/2023-5. The third, fourth, sixth, and seventh authors thank
IFPE for the financial support under Call REI/IFPE No. 43/2023.
Conflicts of Interest: Author Marrison Gabriel Guedes de Souza was employed by the company
NEOG, Brazil. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.
References
1. Strielkowski, W.; Civ ín, L.; Tarkhanova, E.; Tvaronaviˇ cien ˙e, M.; Petrenko, Y. Renewable Energy in the Sustainable Development
of Electrical Power Sector: A Review. Energies 2021 ,14, 8420. [CrossRef]
2. de Novaes Pires Leite, G.; Ara újo, A.M.; Rosas, P .A.C. Prognostic Techniques Applied to Maintenance of Wind Turbines: A
Concise and Specific Review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2018 ,81, 1917–1925. [CrossRef]
3. Guo, Y.; Sheng, S.; Phillips, C.; Keller, J.; Veers, P .; Williams, L. A Methodology for Reliability Assessment and Prognosis of
Bearing Axial Cracking in Wind Turbine Gearboxes. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2020 ,127, 109888. [CrossRef]
4. BS EN 13306:2010 ; Maintenance—Maintenance Terminology. NSAI. 2010. Available online: https://www.en-standard.eu/
bs-en-13306-2017-maintenance-maintenance-terminology/?gad_source=1&gclid=Cj0KCQjwwMqvBhCtARIsAIXsZpZS1
xtdpaIhepDSfK9Ukr8llB0tSP-j860QQhjm2l81JU8jXHbnnDIaAu1TEALw_wcB (accessed on 17 January 2024).
5. Randall, R.B. Vibration-Based Condition Monitoring , 1st ed.; John Wiley & Sons, Ltd: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2011; ISBN 9780470747858.
6. Koukoura, S. Failure and Remaining Useful Life Prediction of Wind Turbine Gearboxes. Annu. Conf. PHM Soc. 2018 ,10.
[CrossRef]
7. Carroll, J.; Koukoura, S.; McDonald, A.; Charalambous, A.; Weiss, S.; McArthur, S. Wind Turbine Gearbox Failure and Remaining
Useful Life Prediction Using Machine Learning Techniques. Wind Energy 2019 ,22, 360–375. [CrossRef]
8. Dameshghi, A.; Refan, M.H. Combination of Condition Monitoring and Prognosis Systems Based on Current Measurement and
PSO-LS-SVM Method for Wind Turbine DFIGs with Rotor Electrical Asymmetry. Energy Syst. 2021 ,12, 203–232. [CrossRef]
9. Herp, J.; Pedersen, N.L.; Nadimi, E.S. Assessment of Early Stopping through Statistical Health Prognostic Models for Empirical
Rul Estimation in Wind Turbine Main Bearing Failure Monitoring. Energies 2019 ,13, 83. [CrossRef]
10. Elasha, F.; Shanbr, S.; Li, X.; Mba, D. Prognosis of a Wind Turbine Gearbox Bearing Using Supervised Machine Learning. Sensors
2019 ,19, 3092. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
11. Hart, E.; Clarke, B.; Nicholas, G.; Kazemi Amiri, A.; Stirling, J.; Carroll, J.; Dwyer-Joyce, R.; McDonald, A.; Long, H. A Review of
Wind Turbine Main Bearings: Design, Operation, Modelling, Damage Mechanisms and Fault Detection. Wind Energy Sci. 2020 ,
5, 105–124. [CrossRef]
12. Yucesan, Y.A.; Viana, F.A.C. A Hybrid Model for Main Bearing Fatigue Prognosis Based on Physics and Machine Learning. In
Proceedings of the AIAA Scitech 2020 Forum, Orlando, FL, USA, 6–10 January 2020; American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics Inc., AIAA: Orlando, FL, USA, 2020; Volume 1. Part F.
13. Yucesan, Y.A.; Viana, F.A.C. Wind Turbine Main Bearing Fatigue Life Estimation with Physics-Informed Neural Networks ; PHM Society:
Orlando, FL, USA, 2019.
14. Yang, L.; Zhang, Z. Wind Turbine Gearbox Failure Detection Based on SCADA Data: A Deep Learning Based Approach. IEEE
IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2020 ,70, 3507911. [CrossRef]
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
Energies 2024 ,17, 1430 17 of 17
15. Hu, C.; Byeng, D.Y.; Youn, D.; Wang, P . Springer Series in Reliability Engineering Design under Uncertainty and Health Prognostics ;
Springer Publisher: New York, NY, USA, 2019.
16. Wiese, B.; Pedersen, N.L.; Nadimi, E.S.; Herp, J. Estimating the Remaining Power Generation of Wind Turbines—An Exploratory
Study for Main Bearing Failures. Energies 2020 ,13, 3406. [CrossRef]
17. McKinney, W. Pandas: A Python Data Analysis Library. Available online: http://pandas.sourceforge.net (accessed on
17 January 2024).
18. Perktold, J.; Seabold, S.; Taylor, J. Statsmodels Documentation. Available online: https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/generated/
statsmodels.tsa.seasonal.seasonal_decompose.html#statsmodels.tsa.seasonal.seasonal_decompose (accessed on 17 January 2024).
19. Rezamand, M.; Carriveau, R.; Ting, D.S.K.; Davison, M.; Davis, J.J. Aggregate Reliability Analysis of Wind Turbine Generators.
IET Renew. Power Gener. 2019 ,13, 1902–1910. [CrossRef]
20. Abid, K.; Sayed-Mouchaweh, M.; Laurence, C. Adaptive Machine Learning Approach for Fault Prognostics Based on Normal
Conditions—Application to Shaft Bearings of Wind Turbine. Annu. Conf. PHM Soc. 2019 ,11, 46–50. [CrossRef]
21. Tutiv’en, C.; Benalcazar–Parra, C.; Escuela, A.E.; Vidal, Y.; Puruncaias, B.; Fajardo, M. Wind Turbine Main Bearing Condition
Monitoring via Convolutional Autoencoder Neural Networks. In Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference on Electrical,
Computer, Communications and Mechatronics Engineering (ICECCME), Mauritius, 7–8 October 2021; pp. 1–6.
22. Leahy, K.; Gallagher, C.; O’Donovan, P .; Bruton, K.; O’Sullivan, D.T.J. A Robust Prescriptive Framework and Performance Metric
for Diagnosing and Predicting Wind Turbine Faults Based on SCADA and Alarms Data with Case Study. Energies 2018 ,11, 1738.
[CrossRef]
23. Zhao, Y.; Li, D.; Dong, A.; Kang, D.; Lv, Q.; Shang, L. Fault Prediction and Diagnosis of Wind Turbine Generators Using SCADA
Data. Energies 2017 ,10, 1210. [CrossRef]
24. Correa-jullian, C.; Cofre-martel, S.; Martin, G.S.; Droguett, E.L.; de Novaes Pires Leite, G.; Costa, A. Exploring Quantum Machine
Learning and Feature Reduction Techniques for Wind Turbine Pitch Fault Detection. Energies 2022 ,15, 2792. [CrossRef]
25. Sahu, A.; Jambhale, R.; Adiga, D.T.; Powar, N.; Mckinley, T. Formulation of Model Stability Metrics for Remaining Useful Life
Models of Engine Components. In Proceedings of the 2023 IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, MT, USA, 4–11 March 2023;
Volume 2023, pp. 1–11.
26. Sikorska, J.Z.; Hodkiewicz, M.; Ma, L. Prognostic Modelling Options for Remaining Useful Life Estimation by Industry. Mech.
Syst. Signal Process. 2011 ,25, 1803–1836. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
------------------------------End of the page -----------------------------------
